Reinforcement Learning Provides a Flexible Approach for Realistic Supply Chain Safety Stock Optimisation Edward Elson Kosasiha, Alexandra Brintrupa aInstitute for Manufacturing, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom Abstract Although safety stock optimisation has been studied for more than 60 years, most companies still use simplistic means to calculate necessary safety stock levels, partly due to the mismatch between existing analytical methods’ emphases on deriving provably optimal solutions and companies’ preferences to sacriﬁce optimal results in favour of more realistic problem settings. A newly emerging method from the ﬁeld of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI), namely Reinforcement Learning (RL), o ﬀers promise in ﬁnding optimal solutions while accommodating more realistic problem features. Unlike analytical-based models, RL treats the problem as a black-box simulation environment mitigating against the problem of oversimplifying reality. As such, assumptions on stock keeping policy can be relaxed and a higher number of problem variables can be accommodated. While RL has been popular in other domains, its applications in safety stock optimisation remain scarce. In this paper we investigate three RL methods, namely, Q-Learning, Temporal Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic and Multi-agent Temporal Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic for optimising safety stock in a linear chain of independent agents. We ﬁnd that RL can simultaneously optimise both safety stock level and order quantity parameters of an inventory policy, unlike classical safety stock optimisation models where only safety stock level is optimised while order quantity is predetermined based on simple rules. This allows RL to model more complex supply chain procurement behaviour. However, RL takes longer time to arrive at solutions, necessitating future research on identifying and improving trade-o ﬀs between the use of AI and mathematical models are needed. Keywords: Supply Chain, Safety Stock, Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Inventory Control, Simulation Optimisation, Reinforcement Learning 1. Introduction Increasing supply chain complexity and economic uncer- tainty a ﬀects both supply and demand. Supply chain executives need to improve their inventory management strategy to handle emerging uncertainties ([13]). A 2011 report from Chief Sup- ply Chain O ﬃcer (CSCO) Insights found that 76% of surveyed executives listed inventory management excellence as either top priority or highly important ([3]). In this paper, we focus on the problem of end-to-end safety stock placement, which is a subset of the general inventory op- timisation problem. The objective of end-to-end safety stock placement is to calculate how much and where to keep extra stock across the whole supply chain to mitigate stockout risks due to supply and demand uncertainty. The safety stock placement problem, also known as safety stock optimisation, has been studied for more than 60 years, starting from the two seminal papers of Simpson Jr [34] and Clark and Scarf [2]. Signiﬁcant emphases have been put on deriving optimisation strategies with provable optimality, often at the expense of simplifying reality. Unfortunately, these lim- iting assumptions prevent industry adoption ([13]). The CSCO 2011 report found that many companies, in practice, tend to still use rather simplistic means to calculate safety stock levels ([3]). This is partly because companies are typically not as concerned about using the most optimally proven yet oversimpliﬁed pol-icy but instead would like models that can reﬂect their reality ([13]), pointing to a discrepancy between academic studies and practice. We hypothesise that a recently emerging technique from the ﬁeld of AI Reinforcement Learning (RL) could help address this requirement. In RL goal-directed agents learn policies that optimise the performance rewards they would receive from the black-box environment. The agents make limited assumptions about this black-box behaviour. The learning algorithm of RL is designed to be as generic as possible such that if the black- box environment is altered, no algorithmic design changes are required. The agents thus could utilise the same learning algo- rithm to adapt their behaviour to the new environment. In the case of inventory optimisation, the environment could be de- ﬁned as the companies’ supply chain while the agents represent their safety stock control software. To test our hypothesis we examine the use of RL by con- textualising the safety stock problem as Q-Learning, Temporal Diﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic and Multi-agent Temporal Diﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic RL approach. A baseline analytical model and a test problem are developed for cross- comparison of results. Our ﬁndings show that while RL is slightly suboptimal compared to the baseline results that are de- rived analytically, it is able to optimise both safety stock level and order quantity parameters of an inventory policy - require- Preprint submitted to Elsevier July 5, 2021arXiv:2107.00913v1 [cs.MA] 2 Jul 2021 ment that is not possible to fulﬁll with classical safety stock op- timisation modelling where only safety stock level is optimised whilst order quantity rule being a priori predetermined based on a simple rule (such as base stock, (s, S) or (s, nQ) inventory policy). On the other hand, we ﬁnd that RL su ﬀers from high computational complexity, thus the beneﬁts obtained from RL must be balanced against the time required to obtain solutions. This paper is organised as follows. First, a literature re- view is performed to identify existing safety stock optimisation methods and identify research gaps. RL is proposed as a po- tential method to address these problems. Second, we design a problem to test the RL methods and solve it analytically. Next, we elaborate on the RL algorithmic design used to tackle the problem. Experimental results with the RL algorithms are anal- ysed and discussed, followed by suggestions for future avenues of research. 2. Literature Review The simplest formulation of the safety stock placement prob- lem is the following: Minimise the total safety stock costs across all echelons in a supply chain, whilst ensuring that stockouts are prevented. This problem has been studied for more than 60 years, starting from the two seminal papers (Simpson Jr [34] and Clark and Scarf [2]). Over the years, safety stock placement has evolved to include more variables, capturing the various in- tricacies of supply chains. We perform a literature review on safety stock optimisation papers from 1958 until early 2020. Two electronic databases were searched, Scopus and Web of Science using the following keywords. ”safety stock optimisation” OR”safety stock placement” Several comprehensive surveys on safety stock optimisa- tion have been written by [5], [33], [6], and [4]. There are two classes of methods in the literature, Guaranteed Service Model (GSM) and Stochastic Service Model (SSM), introduced by [34] and [2] respectively. GSM assumes that all demand will be fulﬁlled in ﬁxed lead time, even if that means using extraor- dinary means like outsourcing or expediting if needed when in- ventory is insu ﬃcient. Meanwhile, SSM allows some demand to be back ordered when inventory is not enough, resulting in stochastic lead time from the customer’s perspective. [11] implemented the two models on several real-life prob- lems and concluded that more empirical studies are needed to determine which models provide better and more realistic de- cision support. [19] compared the two models and concluded that GSM performs slightly better than SSM given moderate cost for ﬂexibility measures (such as outsourcing or expedit- ing), large processing times in warehouse and high service level requirement for retailers. [6] found that research on GSM has especially attracted more interest in the past decade. Following this trend, we focus on GSM in this work. The most simplistic GSM formulates the inventory of a par- ticular agent jas a function of mean µjand standard deviationσjof demand (modelled as a Normal distribution), supplier’s lead time S Ij, processing time Tj, service time Sj, service level zjand Safety Stock function S S j() as seen in equation 1. Ij=µj×(S Ij+Tj−Sj)+S S j(zj,σj,S Ij,Tj,Sj) (1) Since mean µdemand is a ﬁxed value, only the safety stock part of the equation is considered for optimisation. Given that hjrepresents inventory holding cost at agent j, the optimisation problem can be formulated as a minimisation problem over all Nagents in the supply chain, as seen in equation 2. Minimise∑ j∈Nhj×S S j(zj,σj,S Ij,Tj,Sj) (2) subject to Sj−S Ij≤Tjfor all j∈nodes N,(3) S Ij−Si≥0 for all ( i,j)∈set of adjacent nodes A (4) Sj≤sjfor all j∈set of demand nodes D (5) Sj,S Ij≥0 and integer for j∈nodes N (6) The deﬁnition of safety stock function S S jvaries across the literature. The di ﬀerences mainly come from modifying the following safety stock formula originally proposed by [34]. S S j(zj,σj,S Ij,Tj,Sj)=zj×σj×√ S Ij+Tj−Sj (7) where zj=service level, or multiplier for standard deviation σjof demand seen at node j; this a ﬀects how much demand bound would be covered, S Ij=service time of node j’s sup- plier, Tj=processing time and Sj=service time guaranteed to customer. Hence, safety stock is deﬁned as inventory used to cover the lead time period ( S Ij+Tj−Sj). The following are several variations of the safety stock for- mula in equation 7 proposed in the literature. Inderfurth [15] models a case where there might be multiple end customers with correlated demands. Schoenmeyr and Graves [27] assumes that future demand can be forecasted at present time by some function. Graves and Schoenmeyr [9] adds a new variable called capacity constraints. Graves and Willems [12] works with non- stationary demand, where planning horizon can be divided into two phases each having di ﬀerent probability distribution. Kloster- halfen et al. [20] consider a problem version where there is static dual supply. Finally, Humair and Willems [14] deﬁnes a new attribute called clusters of commonalities. To solve this problem formulation, most literature used ana- lytical methods /mathematical programming approaches. Simp- son Jr [34] theoretically proved that in a serial supply chain, the problem is equivalent to a square root minimisation function over a bounded polyhedron. Therefore, the optimal solution lies at the vertices of the solution set. One can then enumer- ate all vertices and ﬁnd the optimal result. This property is also referred to as an all-or-nothing characteristic. Inderfurth [15] proved that the same property holds for the distribution 2 Figure 1: In analytical optimisation, the objective function is known in closed- form equation, hence we can obtain its gradient and solve it with mathemati- cal programming. In simulation-based optimisation, the objective function is a black box, hence all we get is an output response for every input. We can not derive its closed-form gradient, thus we need to rely on approximations. While closed-form objective is generally preferable, in complex supply chain this might not always be obtainable, unless further assumptions and simpliﬁca- tions are made. network. Besides enumeration, Graves and Willems [10], In- derfurth [15], and Minner [24] have also shown that a dynamic programming algorithm can be used to ﬁnd the solution itera- tively. Lesnaia [21] combined this with a branch-and-bound al- gorithm. Magnanti et al. [23] estimates the objective to succes- sive piece-wise linear function approximation, converting this into a sequence of linear programming problems. Heuristics have also been studied. Shu and Karimi [29] uses linear approx- imations heuristics. Minner [24] investigates simulated anneal- ing and tabu search. Li and Jiang [22] uses hybrid constraint programming and genetic algorithms. Simulation-based optimisation methods have not been ex- plored as much as analytical approaches in the literature. Our ﬁnding agrees with [4], that simulation based approaches have been understudied in the wider literature of inventory optimisa- tion. Unlike analytical models, simulation-based optimisation is done with respect to a black box. The problem’s objectives and constraints are hidden within the latter, hence optimisation algorithms can only see total costs of certain input conﬁgura- tions. In practice, this means that companies can use their ERP system as a black box, without the need to write down every subsystem interaction in a set of explicit equations. This is why [18] wrote that simulation-based models require less modeling eﬀort than their analytical model counterparts. According to Glasserman and Tayur [8], analytical methods focus on mod- eling more complex features while simulation-based methods accept the limitations of tractable models and adjust them ac- cordingly to handle practical environments based on real sys- tem. Some existing works on simulation-based optimisation in the literature included the following. Sitompul et al. [35] used Monte Carlo simulation to estimate safety stock correction fac- torφjthat will then be fed into the analytical safety stock for-mulation. Glasserman and Tayur [8] combined analytical- and simulation- based optimisation, where the latter is used to run sensitivity analysis and adjust the solution proposed by the for- mer subsequently. Schoenmeyr [28] used numerical simula- tions to estimate upper limit of demand in the absence of ex- plicit capacity constraints. Simulation shows it is optimal to set the upper limits far downstream in the supply chain using limits slightly larger than the average demand. [25] used sim- ulated annealing as a hybrid simulation-optimisation procedure to optimise safety stock and order quantity in a given MRP sys- tem. Agarwal [1] used Gaussian process under a simulation- optimisation framework for inventory control. Existing safety stock optimisation models also assume that the procurement rule of an inventory policy i.e. order quan- tity, was predetermined based on a simple rule. Only the safety stock level is optimised. Three of the most commonly used in- ventory policies are base stock, (s, S) and (s, nQ) ([4]). In base stock, agents continuously review their inventory position and upon demand fulﬁllment, place an order that will bring the latter up to predetermined base stock level. (s, S) is almost identical to the former, where base stock level is denoted as S. How- ever, an order will only be placed if the inventory position has decreased below reorder point s. Lastly, in (s, nQ) orders can only be an integer nmultiplication of ﬁxed quantity Q, and are placed if a reorder point shas been achieved. These policies can be proven to be optimal for standard problems. However, for a black box complex problem that changes over time, the order quantity rule aspect of inventory policy might have to be optimised as well, and not determined beforehand. We hypothesise that a recently developed family of algo- rithms, called Reinforcement Learning (RL), could address the two aforementioned research gaps i.e. lack of simulation-based optimisation methods and predetermined inventory policy. RL is an area in machine learning where agents learn how to map situations to actions in order to maximise /minimise a certain reward signal provided by the environment ([36]). RL agents are inherently trained to learn from a black box environment (equivalent to simulation-based models), discover both the op- timal ﬁnal state and also the policy (or set of actions) that must be taken to achieve that state (i.e. optimising inventory policy). Figure 2 shows the di ﬀerence between current safety stock op- timisation model and our proposed RL approach. RL has recently been shown to be successful in tackling certain complex problems that were once thought intractable, such as the game of Go ([37], [31], [32], [30]). However, there is no existing research that used Reinforcement Learning as a methodology for safety stock optimisation. As such, we expanded our literature review to the wider inventory control problem. After doing so, we found a limited number of papers as reviewed below. Oroojlooyjadid et al. [26] uses RL to solve the beer distri- bution game. They use Deep Q-Network (DQN) algorithm to train an agent that could adjust its ordering policy in a simu- lated Beer Distribution Game i.e. a multi-echelon supply chain problem. They found that DQN could replicate base-stock pol- icy and also learn more complex policies when faced with an atypical environment. Kara and Dogan [17] uses RL to specify 3 Figure 2: In standard safety stock optimisation models, only the safety stock level is optimised. Meanwhile, the order quantity was predetermined based on a simple rule. For example, in base stock policy, the order quantity rule is set beforehand to be equal to base stock - current inventory. On the other hand, in RL-based models, both safety stock level and order quantity rule are optimised. In Actor-Critic model, for instance, safety stock level is modeled with a critic neural network while order quantity with actor neural network. ordering policies of perishable inventory systems. The authors found that using Q-Learning and SARSA produces better re- sults when demand has high variance and products have short lifetimes. Gijsbrechts et al. [7] uses Asynchronous Advantage Actor-Critic (A3C) algorithm to solve Dual Sourcing Inventory Model, Lost Sales Inventory Models and Multi-echelon Inven- tory Model problem. They concluded that RL is a promising generic technique that can be used to solve intractable inven- tory problems, although it does not always outperform other algorithms. Moreover, interpreting the resulting trained policy remains a challenge. Jiang and Sheng [16] combines case-based RL with multi-agent system to control inventory level while making sure that the target service level is met. The agents managed to learn the parameters of (s, S) and (s, nQ) inventory policies. Nevertheless, none of the aforementioned works addressed and benchmarked against existing analytical-based safety stock optimisation models. In this work, we show how RL can be used to solve safety stock optimisation problem. While RL is slightly suboptimal compared to the analytical-based model, it could produce a more complex inventory policy as both safety stock level and order quantity rule are optimised. To illustrate how RL-based model works in practice, we explore three com- monly used RL algorithms: Q-Learning (Algorithm 1), Tempo- ral Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic (Algorithm 2) and Multi- agent Temporal Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic (Algorithm 3) (see Appendix). The next section introduces our problem design. 3. Problem Design The objective of our experiment is to juxtapose the insights that existing analytical-based model and our proposed RL-based model yield. Therefore, in order to make comparable results, we resorted to a standard serial supply chain problem, whoseanalytical solutions have been thoroughly studied and the op- timal solution can be derived and proven. We shall show how reinforcement learning can optimise both safety stock level and order quantity rule through the usage of critic and actor neural network, respectively. Figure 3: Simulation Design There are 3 agents in the three-echelon supply chain: a Re- tailer, warehouse and factory. Retailer adopts a (Q, rp) inven- tory policy with Qretailer being normally distributed order quan- tity that is placed to warehouse when its’ inventory position hits reorder point rp. Being a pull-based supply chain, Factory and Warehouse will only procure or produce stocks upon seeing de- mand from the Retailer. Factory and Warehouse could choose to order or produce more than demand, so that any extra items (also known as safety stock) are kept as inventories in the next cycle. With more inventories on-hand, Factory and Warehouse could o ﬀer a shorter service time to their customers. Any de- mand that cannot be met (e.g. when actual fulﬁllment exceeds guaranteed service time) will be deemed as stock-out. The objective of the problem is to minimise the amount of safety stock in the system while ensuring that there is no stock- out. We assume a cooperative game setup where agents work together to optimise a common objective function. Moreover, we would like to extract insights on how agents’ ordering pol- icy should be in order to navigate through the transient state and achieve the optimal inventory position as prescribed by the GSM. As we will use reinforcement learning for this experiment, we need to deﬁne three set of variables: agent states, agent ac- tions, and environment model. Two sets of experiments will be done on di ﬀerent cost assignments. The problem deﬁnition can be found in Table 1. This table is divided into 5 sections, com- bining optimisation problem (variables, objective, constraints) and Markov Decision Problem (state, action, environment) for- mulation. Using the inventory optimisation model typology developed by [4], our proposed method belongs to category 3, S, D, G |F, D|N, G,|O, F, U|M||S, O. 4. Analytical-based Optimisation In this section, we formulate this problem as a concave min- imisation over bounded polyhedron. According to the formula- tion, the GSM problem is: 4 (a) Problem State Variables Inventory at Factory If actory Inventory at Warehouse Iwarehouse (b) Problem Action Variables Order Quantity from Retailer to Warehouse Qretailer Reordering Point of Retailer rp Order Quantity from Warehouse to Factory Qwarehouse Production Quantity of Factory Qf actory (c) Problem Environment Variables Inventory Cost of Factory hf actory £hf actory /item Inventory Cost of Warehouse hwarehouse £hwarehouse /item Processing Times of Factory Tf actory 1 time units Processing Times of Warehouse Twarehouse 3 time units Service Time of Retailer Sretailer 0 time units Demand Proﬁle D Normal (2,0.01) Maximum Inventory CapacityCf actory,Cwarehouse 30 items Cretailer Stock-out Cost at Retailer η £10000 /item Order Quantity from Retailer to WarehouseQretailerNormal (µ=10,σ=1) items Target Service Level z-score zf actory,zwarehouse 3, or 99.9% service level (d) Problem Constraints rp≥0 reorder point is non-negative rp≤6trivial solution is not possible. With de- mandµ=2, this means that Swarehouse≤ rp µ=6 2=3 Qwarehouse≥Qretailer –Iwarehousenew inventory after receiving order is larger than demand; hence customer’s or- der is fulﬁll-able. Qwarehouse≤Cwarehouse –Iwarehousenew inventory after receiving order is less than capacity. Qf actory≥Qwarehouse –If actorynew inventory after receiving order is larger than demand; hence customer’s or- der is fulﬁll-able. Qf actory≤Cf actory –If actorynew inventory after receiving order is less than capacity. rp,Qwarehouse andQf actory all integers (e) Problem Setup Case 1 hf actory =£1000≥hwarehouse =£5 Case 2 hf actory =£5≤hwarehouse =£1000 Table 1: Problem Deﬁnition 5 Minimise hf actory×zf actory×σ×√ 0+1−Sf actory + hwarehouse×zwarehouse×σ×√ Sf actory +3−Swarehouse(8) subject to Sf actory≤0+1 (9) Swarehouse≤Sf actory +3 (10) Swarehouse≤3 (11) where zj=service level =3 andσ=standard deviation of demand =1 in our case. Therefore, the amount of safety stock kept in Factory is 3 ×1×√1−Sf actory while Warehouse keeps 3×1×√Sf actory +3−Swarehouse . Based on equation 1, Total Inventory for both agents can be written as a sum of mean demand and safety stock. If actory =µ×(1−Sf actory )+3×1×√1−Sf actory andIwarehouse =µ×(Sf actory +3−Swarehouse )+3× 1×√Sf actory +3−Swarehouse . The original GSM problem assumes base-stock (order up- to-Q) policy with continuous review. Following the all-or-nothing characteristic of GSM for serial supply chains, we can test the four vertices of the solution set, as seen in Table 2. The optimal solution with the lowest cost is highlighted in blue. Case 1 Hypothesis: S f actory =1,Swarehouse =3, or I f actory = 0,Iwarehouse =13,rp=6 Table 2(a) shows that it is always better to keep no stock in Factory ( Sf actory =1,If actory =0). As we have set the prob- lem constraint such that Swarehouse<=3, the optimum solu- tion should thus be when Swarehouse =3,Iwarehouse =13. With Swarehouse =3, agent Retailer’s reorder point rpis then equal to the daily demand mean it sees multiplied by service time rp=Swarehouse×D=3×2=6. Case 2 Hypothesis: S f actory =0,Swarehouse =3, or I f actory = 13,Iwarehouse =0,rp=6 Table 2(b) shows that it is always better to keep no stock in Warehouse ( Swarehouse =3,Iwarehouse =0). The optimum solution should thus be when Sf actory =0,If actory =13. With Swarehouse =3, agent Retailer’s reorder point rpis then equal to the daily demand mean it sees multiplied by service time rp=Swarehouse×D=3×2=6. Observe that the analytical-based method provides the opti- mal safety stock allocation i.e. how much inventory should be kept in each location. However, it does not simultaneously opti- mise the order quantity rule that the agents must follow in order to achieve that inventory position. Instead, it is assumed before- hand a priori that base stock policy is used e.g. order quantity = base stock - current inventory. For a simple case such as this ex- ample problem, it has indeed been mathematically proven that base stock is the most optimum policy ([6]). However, this is not true in general. Thus, this analytical formulation would not work for a more complex problem as we can no longer assume that base stock policy is optimal. In the next section, we shall(a) Solving Case 1 with Enumeration Service Level Inventory LevelTotal Safety Stock Cost Sf actory =0, Swarehouse =0If actory = 13, Iwarehouse =30+3√ 33000 +15√ 3 Sf actory =0, Swarehouse =3If actory = 13, Iwarehouse =03000 Sf actory =1, Swarehouse =0If actory = 0, Iwarehouse =4630 Sf actory =1, Swarehouse =3If actory = 0, Iwarehouse =1315 (b) Solving Case 2 with Enumeration Service Level Inventory LevelTotal Safety Stock Cost Sf actory =0, Swarehouse =0If actory = 13, Iwarehouse =30+3√ 315+3000√ 3 Sf actory =0, Swarehouse =3If actory = 13, Iwarehouse =015 Sf actory =1, Swarehouse =0If actory = 0, Iwarehouse =466000 Sf actory =1, Swarehouse =3If actory = 0, Iwarehouse =133000 Table 2: Solving Cases with Enumeration see that RL allows simultaneous optimisation of order quantity rule and safety stock level, hence providing a way around this limitation. 5. Simulation-based Optimisation with RL The way our simulated problem works is the following. The simulation consists of cycles of agents shipping or producing items upon seeing demands from their customers. For every cycle, after demand has been fulﬁlled, the following joint re- ward is provided to all agents. The higher the amount of inven- tory and stock-outs, the more negative will the reward be. The objective is thus to maximise the reward. reward =−{hf actory×If actory +hwarehouse×Iwarehouse +η×stockouts}(12) Tabular Q-Learning The planner agent sees a state vector st=[If actory Iwarehouse rt p] and decides an action vector at=[ Qf actory Qwarehouse rt+1 p] accordingly. The planner agent is trained with Algorithm 1 (see Appendix) where Q-function is represented with a lookup table with hyperparameters speciﬁed in Table 3. Temporal Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic Although Q-Learning works, it does not scale well with the size of the action space as it assumes that actions are discrete. 6 Table 3: Q-Learning Hyperparameters Q-Table input vector st=[ If actory Iwarehouse rt p] output vector at=[ Qf actory Qwarehouse rt+1 p] number of in- stances1 discount factor γ 0.2 learning rate α 0.8 epsilon-greedy factorϵ0.5 implementation numpy Table 4: A2C Neural Network Hyperparameters Value Network Policy Network number of in- stances1 1 inputst = [ If actory Iwarehouse rt p]st = [ If actory Iwarehouse rt p] hidden layers and neurons3 layers each 100 neurons with ReLU activation3 layers each 100 neu- rons with ReLU activa- tion output scalar scoreat = [ Qf actory Qwarehouse rt+1 p] discount factorγ0.2 0.2 optimiser Adam Adam optimiser’s α0.001 0.001 optimiser’s β10.9 0.9 optimiser’s β20.999 0.999 optimiser’s ϵ1e-07 1e-07 software tensorﬂow-keras tensorﬂow-keras Moreover, it does not generalise across states and actions since it only uses tabular representation. In this section, we explore another approach called policy gradient that could operate on continuous space and generalise. Training is done using Algorithm 2 (see Appendix). Both critic and actor agents are represented with neural networks whose hyperparameters are speciﬁed in Table 4. We chose default hyperparameters that are prescribed by the tensorﬂow- keras software package. During training, both critic and actor are trained iteratively. However during testing, only the actor is used. Multi-agent Temporal Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic Although centralised methods work, they scale exponen- tially with the number of agents. In this section we explore decentralised methods where each agent can only see its’ ownTable 5: Multi-agent A2C Neural Network Hyperparameters Value Network Policy Network number of in- stances1 3 inputst = [ If actory Iwarehouse rt p]si t=[ IiQi+1] fori∈ {f actory,warehouse} hidden layers and neurons3 layers each 100 neurons with ReLU activation3 layers each 100 neu- rons with ReLU activa- tion output scalar scoreai t= Qifor i∈ {f actory,warehouse}and aretailer t =rt+1 p discount factorγ0.2 0.2 optimiser Adam Adam optimiser’s α0.001 0.001 optimiser’s β10.9 0.9 optimiser’s β20.999 0.999 optimiser’s ϵ1e-07 1e-07 software tensorﬂow-keras tensorﬂow-keras inventory and demand. As a result, the model would scale lin- early with the number of agents. In particular we focus on a particular strand of decentralised reinforcement learning algo- rithm called multi-agent A2C. As mentioned in Algorithm 3 (see Appendix), this method requires a centralised critic that will only be present during training. Meanwhile, in testing, the actors are all decentralised. The critic sees joint state st=[ If actory Iwarehouse rt p] , while the actor sees a local state i.e. sf actory t =[ If actory Qwarehouse] for fac- tory, and swarehouse t =[ Iwarehouse Qretailer] for warehouse respectively. Training is done using Algorithm 3 . Both critic and actor are repre- sented with neural networks whose hyperparameters are speciﬁed in Table 5. We chose default hyperparameters that are prescribed by the tensorﬂow-keras software package. 6. Experimental Results Experiments were performed on a Dell laptop with Intel i9-9980HK CPU, 2.4 GHz processor and 16 GB RAM. Tabular Q-Learning Table 6 shows the resulting 95% CI average inventory level for both case 1 and case 2 when the agents are trained from scratch 10 times with di ﬀerent random initial conditions. As hypothesised, the result shows that the agent’s behaviour is suboptimal but close to the analytically-derived solutions, as deﬁned in the two columns: Case 1 and Case 2 Analytical. 7 Table 6: Q-Learning Case 1 and 2 95% CI Average Inventory Level Case 1 RLCase 1 Ana- lyticalCase 2 RLCase 2 Ana- lytical rp[1.02, 1.12]6[3.58, 3.86]6 Iwarehouse[11.22, 13.34]13[1.29, 1.7]0 If actory[0.41, 0.98]0[11.91, 13.18]13 The results demonstrate that Q-Learning works well, however the main caveat is that this method assumes a discrete action space. In our problem case where each agent could choose between ordering 0 to 30 items (maximum capacity), this means that each agent has 30 possible actions. This scales exponentially with the number of agents (assuming n agents all with similar action space, the joint action space will be 30n). Moreover the agent does not generalise across states and actions as each entry is treated as another row in the table. Temporal Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic From Table 7 we can observe the resulting 95% CI average inven- tory level for both case 1 and case 2 when the agents are trained 10 times from di ﬀerent random initial conditions. The agents learned to keep inventory levels that as hypothesised, are suboptimal but close to the solutions that were derived analytically. Table 7: A2C Case 1 and 2 95% CI Average Inventory Level Case 1 RLCase 1 Ana- lyticalCase 2 RLCase 2 Ana- lytical rp[2.11, 2.84]6[3.18, 3.77]6 Iwarehouse[12.58, 15.11]13[0.37, 0.85]0 If actory[1.66, 2.87]0[8.97, 11.24]13 Besides inventory level, A2C framework also provides additional insights as we can visualise both the actor’s and the critic’s behav- ior i.e. input-output relationship. We analyse both critic /value and actor/policy network’s input-output mapping for both cases 1 (Figure 4(a)) and 2 (Figure 4(b)). Figure 4(a) indicates that state If actory =0 and Iwarehouse>13 are preferable for case 1, as predicted by our hypothesis. We’ve also plot- ted the policy network output for agent Factory. Qf actory is always kept to a minimum unless If actory andIwarehouse approach zero. This encour- ages Factory to fulﬁll demand from existing stocks, hence resulting in a lean behaviour. Meanwhile, Figure 4(b) shows that for case 2 state If actory>13 and Iwarehouse =0 are preferable, similar to our hypothesis. Also plotted is the policy network output for agent Factory. Qf actory is always placed if If actory approaches zero. However, if If actory is too much, Qf actory will be cut down to zero, encouraging Factory to fulﬁll demand from existing stocks. This results in a consistent, innovative stock-keeping behavior. (a) A2C Case 1 Value-Policy Visualisation (b) A2C Case 2 Value-Policy Visualisation Figure 4: A2C Value-Policy Visualisation Multi-agent Temporal Di ﬀerence Advantage Actor-Critic Similar to Q-Learning and A2C, we train the agents 10 times from diﬀerent random initial conditions for both cases 1 and 2, resulting in 95% CI average inventory level as seen in Table 8. Table 8: Multi-agent A2C Case 1 and 2 95% CI Average Inventory Level Case 1 RLCase 1 Ana- lyticalCase 2 RLCase 2 Ana- lytical rp[2.73, 3.09]6[2.94, 3.46]6 Iwarehouse[13.98, 19.46]13[1.97, 2.96]0 If actory[0.58, 1.64]0[8.64, 10.98]13 Multi-agent A2C, akin to the previous A2C algorithm, also pro- vides additional insights as we can visualise both actor’s and critic’s behavior i.e. input-output relationship. These can be seen in Figure 5(a) Figure 5(b), for case 1 and 2 respectively. From Figure 5(a), we can see that the agents prefer state If actory =0 andIwarehouse>13, as predicted by our hypothesis. Looking at the policy network output for agent Factory, we can obtain a better un- derstanding of the agent’s behaviour. In this case, Factory will only produce Qf actory ifIf actory =0 and it receives demand Qwarehouse from Warehouse. This results in lean behaviour. On the other hand for case 2, Figure 5(b) shows that state If actory>13 and Iwarehouse =0 are 8 (a) Multi-agent A2C Case 1 Value-Policy Visualisation (b) Multi-agent A2C Case 2 Value-Policy Visualisation Figure 5: Multi-agent A2C Value-Policy Visualisation preferable. We’ve also plotted the policy network output for agent Fac- tory. Factory will always produce Qf actory ifIf actory approaches zero, regardless of demand. However, if If actory is too much, Qf actory will be cut down to a minimum, encouraging Factory to use existing stocks to fulﬁll demand. Once more this results in a consistent, innovative stock-keeping behavior. In the next section, we compare the performance of the three al- gorithms: tabular Q-Learning ( single Q), centralised A2C ( single PG) and decentralised A2C ( multi PG) in terms of their convergence and execution time. Convergence Convergence analysis shows the speed at which agents learn to maximise rewards. In other words, how many training episodes are needed before agents learn the optimum behavior. In this experiment, the number of time steps per episode is kept at 1000. Figure 6(a) and 6(b) show that both centralised and decentralised A2C methods require less episodes than tabular Q-Learning to con- verge. After about 200 episodes, the former has converged while the latter needs about 3000 episodes to reach the same behavior. Execution Time Execution time refers to the amount of learning time that each al- gorithm requires for every episode. For tabular Q-learning this refers to the time it needs to update each table entry. Meanwhile for A2C this is the time taken to perform backpropagation. Figure 7 shows that Tabular Q-Learning is faster than both centralised and decentralised A2C. This is expected since tabular Q-Learning performs a simple ta- ble lookup and update. Note that in this experiment we only use CPU for training. Due to the nature of backpropagation, the execution time (a) Convergence Comparison Case 1. (Left) Raw rewards over iterations until 200 and 3000 episodes. (Right) Moving Average of 10 rewards over iterations obtained from the left charts. (b) Convergence Comparison Case 2. (Left) Raw rewards over iterations until 200 and 3000 episodes. (Right) Moving Average of 10 rewards over iterations obtained from the left charts. Figure 6: Convergence Comparison of both A2C methods can be signiﬁcantly improved if GPU paralleli- sation is used. Figure 7: Execution Time Comparison Based on the analysis done in this chapter, we can conclude that Multi-Agent A2C uses less information than both A2C and Tabular Q- Learning. In particular, the former only requires each agent to see their local inventory level and customer demand, whereas the latter need to see every other agents’ inventory level. In terms of convergence, both Multi-Agent A2C and A2C require less episodes to converge, since these algorithms generalise better than Tabular Q-Learning. Nonethe- less, when it comes to actual execution time, Tabular Q-Learning still triumphs over the others. More fundamental research is needed to speed up the two A2C algorithms. 9 7. Discussion and Conclusions The safety stock optimisation problem has been studied for decades. Nevertheless, it is puzzling why many companies, in practice, tend to still use rather simplistic means to calculate safety stock level [3]. One reason is highlighted by Humair et al. [13], where most emphases have been put on deriving algorithms with provable optimality, often at the expense of simplifying reality. However, companies are typically not as concerned about using the most optimally proven yet oversimpliﬁed policy. Instead, they prefer to utilise solutions that accommodates their actual pain points. We postulate that Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms may have a role to play in safety stock optimisation as its strength lies in the types of challenges companies ﬁnd in adopting optimisation approaches to safety stock problems they face. These include abil- ity to handle complex environments dynamically and as such, being able to to optimise both safety stock level and order quantity rule si- multaneously. Such facets of the safety stock problem have not been well-studied in literature. It is often unrealistically assumed that actors forming the various echelons of a supply chain all use the same simple order quantity rule. RL mitigates these assumptions by its nature. To measure the e ﬃcacy of RL for safety stock optimisation, we de- signed a problem involving a serial structure with three agents. Three RL algorithms have been adopted to the problem including tabular Q- Learning, TD Advantage Actor Critic (A2C) and multi-agent TD A2C. The agents are trained to maximise their joint rewards i.e. minimising total inventory cost and stock-out levels. The trained RL algorithm results in two neural networks: actor and critic. The former governs the agents’ order quantity rule while the latter calculates the desired safety stock level, all conditioned upon the current inventory levels of all agents. The algorithms were validated using a mathematical pro- gramming approach as the baseline, which assumed a priori that the order quantity rule follows a base stock policy e.g. equivalent to base stock - current inventory. However, we have also encountered several challenges with RL- based optimisation algorithms that are worthy for future investigation. First, while neural network based policies could capture more complex behaviour, they are often di ﬃcult to interpret. In the wider literature of machine learning, this is often referred to as the explainability prob- lem. Explainability is a concern for practitioners, as it reduces trust in the algorithm and its output, especially because optimality of an RL- based solution cannot be mathematically proven – it is typically as- sumed that convergence of reward is equivalent to reaching optimality. Second, the convergence rate and execution time of RL-based models are still slow relative to analytical-based mathematical programming approaches. It is currently still di ﬃcult to scale RL to a very large number of agents. However, researchers have actively been working on tackling this problem. Our experiment shows that certain classes of RL, like the Multi-Agent A2C, could scale better than traditional Q- Learning. Nevertheless, more investigation is needed to improve its’ execution time. Therefore practically speaking, in the current state, there is a trade o ﬀbetween deploying an RL algorithm for a more realistic, out of the box solutions, and the time it takes to arrive at solutions. Given these challenges, there are several extensions to our current approach that could be further explored. These include: experimen- tation with more complex supply chain structures, incorporating gen- eral stochastic demand patterns reﬂecting Enterprise Resources Plan- ning (ERP) system data, and incorporating more complex customer behaviour such as backordering. Furthermore, extension of the model to allow local-based infor- mation would be a natural progression. With the Actor-Critic frame-work, this would translate into using actor and critic that are both de- centralised, such that each supply agent pursues their own goals with locally available information. References [1] Agarwal, A. (2019). Multi-echelon Supply Chain Inventory Planning using Simulation-Optimization with Data Resampling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.00090 . [2] Clark, A. J. and Scarf, H. (1960). Optimal policies for a multi-echelon inventory problem. Management science , 6(4):475–490. ISBN: 0025-1909 Publisher: INFORMS. [3] CSCO (2011). Five strategies for improving inventory management across complex supply chain networks. [4] de Kok, T., Grob, C., Laumanns, M., Minner, S., Rambau, J., and Schade, K. (2018). A typology and literature review on stochastic multi-echelon inventory models. European Journal of Operational Research , 269(3):955– 983. ISBN: 0377-2217 Publisher: Elsevier. [5] Diks, E. B., de Kok, A. G., and Lagodimos, A. G. (1996). Multi-echelon systems: A service measure perspective. European Journal of Operational Research , 95(2):241–263. [6] Eruguz, A. S., Sahin, E., Jemai, Z., and Dallery, Y . (2016). A comprehen- sive survey of guaranteed-service models for multi-echelon inventory opti- mization. International Journal of Production Economics , 172:110–125. [7] Gijsbrechts, J., Boute, R. N., Van Mieghem, J. A., and Zhang, D. (2019). Can Deep Reinforcement Learning Improve Inventory Management? Per- formance on Dual Sourcing, Lost Sales and Multi-Echelon Problems. Per- formance on Dual Sourcing, Lost Sales and Multi-Echelon Problems (July 29, 2019) . [8] Glasserman, P. and Tayur, S. (1995). Sensitivity analysis for base-stock levels in multiechelon production-inventory systems. Management Science , 41(2):263–281. ISBN: 0025-1909 Publisher: INFORMS. [9] Graves, S. C. and Schoenmeyr, T. (2016). Strategic safety-stock place- ment in supply chains with capacity constraints. Manufacturing &Service Operations Management , 18(3):445–460. ISBN: 1523-4614 Publisher: IN- FORMS. [10] Graves, S. C. and Willems, S. P. (2000). Optimizing strategic safety stock placement in supply chains. Manufacturing &Service Operations Manage- ment , 2(1):68–83. ISBN: 1523-4614 Publisher: INFORMS. [11] Graves, S. C. and Willems, S. P. (2003). Supply Chain Design: Safety Stock Placement and Supply Chain Conﬁguration. In Handbooks in Oper- ations Research and Management Science , volume 11, pages 95–132. Else- vier. [12] Graves, S. C. and Willems, S. P. (2008). Strategic inventory placement in supply chains: Nonstationary demand. Manufacturing &Service Operations Management , 10(2):278–287. ISBN: 1523-4614 Publisher: INFORMS. [13] Humair, S., Ruark, J. D., Tomlin, B., and Willems, S. P. (2013). Incorpo- rating Stochastic Lead Times Into the Guaranteed Service Model of Safety Stock Optimization. INFORMS Journal on Applied Analytics , 43(5):421– 434. Publisher: INFORMS. [14] Humair, S. and Willems, S. P. (2006). Optimizing strategic safety stock placement in supply chains with clusters of commonality. Operations Re- search , 54(4):725–742. ISBN: 0030-364X Publisher: INFORMS. [15] Inderfurth, K. (1991). Safety stock optimization in multi-stage inventory systems. International Journal of Production Economics , 24(1-2):103–113. ISBN: 0925-5273 Publisher: Elsevier. [16] Jiang, C. and Sheng, Z. (2009). Case-based reinforcement learning for dynamic inventory control in a multi-agent supply-chain system. Expert Systems with Applications , 36(3):6520–6526. ISBN: 0957-4174 Publisher: Elsevier. [17] Kara, A. and Dogan, I. (2018). Reinforcement learning approaches for specifying ordering policies of perishable inventory systems. Expert Systems with Applications , 91:150–158. ISBN: 0957-4174 Publisher: Elsevier. [18] Klemmt, A., Horn, S., Weigert, G., and Wolter, K.-J. (2009). Simulation- based optimization vs. mathematical programming: A hybrid approach for optimizing scheduling problems. Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manu- facturing , 25(6):917–925. ISBN: 0736-5845 Publisher: Elsevier. [19] Klosterhalfen, S. and Minner, S. (2010). Safety stock optimisation in distribution systems: a comparison of two competing approaches. Inter- 10 national Journal of Logistics: Research and Applications , 13(2):99–120. ISBN: 1367-5567 Publisher: Taylor & Francis. [20] Klosterhalfen, S. T., Minner, S., and Willems, S. P. (2014). Strategic safety stock placement in supply networks with static dual supply. Manu- facturing &Service Operations Management , 16(2):204–219. ISBN: 1523- 4614 Publisher: INFORMS. [21] Lesnaia, E. (2004). Optimizing safety stock placement in general network supply chains . PhD thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. [22] Li, H. and Jiang, D. (2012). New model and heuristics for safety stock placement in general acyclic supply chain networks. Computers &Opera- tions Research , 39(7):1333–1344. ISBN: 0305-0548 Publisher: Elsevier. [23] Magnanti, T. L., Max Shen, Z.-J., Shu, J., Simchi-Levi, D., and Teo, C.-P. (2006). Inventory placement in acyclic supply chain networks. Operations Research Letters , 34(2):228–238. [24] Minner, S. (2012). Strategic safety stocks in supply chains , volume 490. Springer Science & Business Media. [25] Molinder, A. (1997). Joint optimization of lot-sizes, safety stocks and safety lead times in an MRP system. International Journal of Production Research , 35(4):983–994. ISBN: 0020-7543 Publisher: Taylor & Francis. [26] Oroojlooyjadid, A., Nazari, M., Snyder, L., and Tak ´aˇc, M. (2017). A Deep Q-Network for the Beer Game: A Deep Reinforcement Learn- ing algorithm to Solve Inventory Optimization Problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.05924 . [27] Schoenmeyr, T. and Graves, S. C. (2009). Strategic safety stocks in sup- ply chains with evolving forecasts. Manufacturing &Service Operations Management , 11(4):657–673. ISBN: 1523-4614 Publisher: INFORMS. [28] Schoenmeyr, T. T. I. (2008). Strategic inventory placement in multi- echelon supply chains: Three essays . PhD thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. [29] Shu, J. and Karimi, I. A. (2009). E ﬃcient heuristics for inventory place- ment in acyclic networks. Computers &Operations Research , 36(11):2899– 2904. [30] Silver, D. (2009). Reinforcement learning and simulation-based search in computer go . phd, University of Alberta, CAN. ISBN-13: 9780494540831. [31] Silver, D., Huang, A., Maddison, C. J., Guez, A., Sifre, L., van den Driessche, G., Schrittwieser, J., Antonoglou, I., Panneershelvam, V ., Lanc- tot, M., Dieleman, S., Grewe, D., Nham, J., Kalchbrenner, N., Sutskever, I., Lillicrap, T., Leach, M., Kavukcuoglu, K., Graepel, T., and Hassabis, D. (2016). Mastering the game of Go with deep neural networks and tree search. Nature , 529(7587):484–489. Number: 7587 Publisher: Nature Pub- lishing Group. [32] Silver, D., Schrittwieser, J., Simonyan, K., Antonoglou, I., Huang, A., Guez, A., Hubert, T., Baker, L., Lai, M., Bolton, A., Chen, Y ., Lillicrap, T., Hui, F., Sifre, L., van den Driessche, G., Graepel, T., and Hassabis, D. (2017). Mastering the game of Go without human knowledge. Nature , 550(7676):354–359. Number: 7676 Publisher: Nature Publishing Group. [33] Simchi-Levi, D. and Zhao, Y . (2011). Performance Evaluation of Stochas- tic Multi-Echelon Inventory Systems: A Survey. ISSN: 1687-9147 Library Catalog: www.hindawi.com Pages: e126254 Publisher: Hindawi V olume: 2012. [34] Simpson Jr, K. F. (1958). In-process inventories. Operations Research , 6(6):863–873. ISBN: 0030-364X Publisher: INFORMS. [35] Sitompul, C., Aghezzaf, E.-H., Dullaert, W., and Landeghem, H. V . (2008). Safety stock placement problem in capacitated supply chains. Inter- national Journal of Production Research , 46(17):4709–4727. ISBN: 0020- 7543 Publisher: Taylor & Francis. [36] Sutton, R. S. and Barto, A. G. (2018). Reinforcement learning: An intro- duction . MIT press. [37] Vinyals, O., Babuschkin, I., Czarnecki, W. M., Mathieu, M., Dudzik, A., Chung, J., Choi, D. H., Powell, R., Ewalds, T., Georgiev, P., Oh, J., Hor- gan, D., Kroiss, M., Danihelka, I., Huang, A., Sifre, L., Cai, T., Agapiou, J. P., Jaderberg, M., Vezhnevets, A. S., Leblond, R., Pohlen, T., Dalibard, V ., Budden, D., Sulsky, Y ., Molloy, J., Paine, T. L., Gulcehre, C., Wang, Z., Pfa ﬀ, T., Wu, Y ., Ring, R., Yogatama, D., W ¨unsch, D., McKinney, K., Smith, O., Schaul, T., Lillicrap, T., Kavukcuoglu, K., Hassabis, D., Apps, C., and Silver, D. (2019). Grandmaster level in StarCraft II using multi- agent reinforcement learning. Nature , 575(7782):350–354. Number: 7782 Publisher: Nature Publishing Group.Appendix A. Reinforcement Learning Implementations Table A.9 deﬁnes the variables that will be used in the three RL algorithms. The three algorithms: Q-Learning, Temporal Di ﬀerence (TD) Advantage Actor-Critic (A2C) and Multi-agent TD A2C are writ- ten below. Table A.9: Reinforcement Learning Variable Deﬁnitions policy function π() action-value function Q() action-value function at a given policy π Qπ() state-value function V() state-value function at a given policy π Vπ() time t step reward r step reward at time t rt Total reward over T steps RT action a action at time t at state s state at time t st learning rate α discount factor γ greedy noise factor ϵ neural network weights W policy (neural) network weights θ value (neural) network weights w 11 Algorithm 1: Q-Learning Result: Q(s,a) for s∈S tates ,a∈Actions (s) Hyperparameters: learning rate α∈(0,1], discount factorγ∈(0,1], epsilon-greedy factor ϵ∈(0,1] ; Initialise Q(s,a) for s∈S tates ,a∈Actions (s) arbitrarily ; foreach episode do initialise sf actory ; fort in[0,T]do ifrandom.random ()<ϵthen at=randomly selected from Actions( st); else at=arg max a(Q(st,a)); end take action at, observe rt+1andst+1; ﬁnd o ﬀ-policy action a′ t+1=arg max a(Q(st+1,a)) ; Q(st,at)← Q(st,at)+α[rt+1+γQ(st+1,a′ t+1)−Q(st,at)] ; end end Algorithm 2: TD Advantage Actor-Critic (A2C) Result: V(s) andπ(a|s) for s∈S tates and a∈Actions (s) Hyperparameters: learning rate αθ,αw∈(0,1], discount factor γ∈(0,1], standard deviation σ; Initialise policy network weights θand value network weights warbitrarily ; foreach episode do initialise sf actory ; fort in[0,T]do at∼π(·|st,θ) ; take action at, observe rt+1andst+1; δ=rt+1+γV(st+1|w)−V(st|w) ; update value parameter w←w+αwδ∇V(st,w) ; update policy parameter θ←θ+αθδ∇lnπ(at|st,θ) ; end endAlgorithm 3: Multi-Agent TD Advantage Actor- Critic (A2C) Result: V([s1,..., sN]) andπi(ai|si) for si∈S tates and ai∈Actions (si) for all agents i∈{1,..., N} Hyperparameters: learning rate αθ=αθ1=···=αθN,αw∈(0,1], discount factor γ∈(0,1], standard deviation σ; Initialise policy network weights θ1,...,θi,...,θNfor each agent i∈1,..., Nand value network weights w arbitrarily ; foreach episode do initialise Sf actory =[s1 0,..., sN 0]; fort in[0,T]do foreach agent i in{1,..., N}do ai t∼πi(·|si t,θi) ; end take action at=[a1 t,..., aN t], observe joint reward rt+1andst+1=[s1 t,..., sN t]; jointδ=rt+1+γV(st+1|w)−V(st|w) ; update value parameter w←w+αwδ∇V(st,w) ; foreach agent i in{1,..., N}do update policy parameter θi←θi+αθδ∇lnπi(ai t|si t,θi) ; end end end 12