Deep RL Dual Sourcing Inventory Management with Supply and Capacity Risk Awareness Defeng Liu liudef@amazon.comYing Liu liuyingy@amazon.comCarson Eisenach ceisen@amazon.com Abstract In this work, we study how to efficiently apply reinforcement learning (RL) for solving large-scale stochastic optimization problems by leveraging intervention models. The key of the proposed methodology is to better explore the solution space by simulating and composing the stochastic processes using pre-trained deep learning (DL) models. We demonstrate our approach on a challenging real-world application, the multi-sourcing multi-period inventory management problem in supply chain optimization. In particular, we employ deep RL models for learning and forecasting the stochastic supply chain processes under a range of assumptions. Moreover, we also introduce a constraint coordination mechanism, designed to forecast dual costs given the cross-products constraints in the inventory network. We highlight that instead of directly modeling the complex physical constraints into the RL optimization problem and solving the stochastic problem as a whole, our approach breaks down those supply chain processes into scalable and composable DL modules, leading to improved performance on large real-world datasets. We also outline open problems for future research to further investigate the efficacy of such models. 1 Introduction Modern inventory management systems (IMS) in retail supply chain (such as Walmart and Amazon) typically deploy multi-sourcing buying strategies, which employ a combined system with a just- in-time (JIT) ordering strategy plus other specialized strategies that strive to achieve a balance between supply shortage and inventory health across all products without compromising the inventory management’s contribution to the overall retail service. In real world supply chains, order quantities are subject to several post-processors, including modifi- cation to meet vendor constraints such as minimum order and batch size constraints. Second, the supply may be unreliable and vendors may only partially fill orders that they receive. This may occur for multiple reasons, including that the vendor itself is out of stock. In the literature the proportion of the original order quantity retailer ultimately receives is referred to as the yield or fill rate. In the current state, there is no existing representation model to learn those external processes. On the other hand, capacity limitations, both in terms of network inbound capacity and storage capacity, require the supply chain system to assess which inventory to purchase and when to have it arrive through all of its buying channels in order to have an effective and efficient capacity controller (CC). For example, for JIT buys, traditional CC mechanisms typically have the ability to simulate and compute weekly capacity costs to meet the available capacity for short forward-looking periods, e.g. one to three months. However, as modern sourcing systems have changed to reflect increasing Accepted by the 42ndInternational Conference on Machine Learning, Workshop on Scaling Up Intervention Models, Vancouver, Canada. PMLR 267, 2025. Copyright 2025 by the author(s).arXiv:2507.14446v5 [cs.LG] 9 Jan 2026 complexity in global supply chain and the availability of direct-from-manufacturer cost discounts, inventory decisions are made further into the future to cover planning horizons of longer periods, e.g. more than six months. This work is also motivated by prior works (Madeka et al., 2022; Andaz et al., 2024; Eisenach et al., 2024) which established the viability of Deep RL for single-sourcing inventory planning problem. But we forward this line of research by targeting for a more complex variant of the aforementioned problem, wherein multi-sourcing channels of vendors are available and the primary trade-off considered was to strike a balance for costs vs supply risks for different vendors. On the other hand, we aim to investigate effects of discount rates on long lead orders, stochastic quantity over time arrival profiles. Here, we emphasize that a critical issue encountered in solving the multi-sourcing inventory problem via traditional methods such as dynamic programming is the unknown dynamics of a variety of underlying processes associated with inventory control. For instance, customer demand is not deterministic and exhibits volatility which are influenced by seasonality, external sourcing processes, etc. To incorporate those complex supply chain processes, we attempt to investigate whether it is possible to efficiently scale the training of decision policies from the vast amount of available historical data, without the requirement to build separate models for the various state variables with unknown stochastic behaviors. We organize rest of the paper as summarized next. Section 2 reviews the related work. In Section 3, we mathematically formulate the dual-sourcing inventory management problem and thereby describe our dual sourcing RL methodology as a solution for the problem. In Section 4, we present our main results from numerical experiments. Additionally, in Section 5, we extend our dual sourcing RL baseline model by introducing a capacity mechanism control strategy and provide evaluation results. Finally, we conclude the paper with discussion on future work in Section 6. 2 Related work Dual Sourcing Inventory Control:Dual sourcing is a heavily studied problem in inventory control literature, and has become a common practice supply chain organizations worldwide. In vanilla dual sourcing problem, the sourcing channels i.e., JIT, LLT essentially cause a trade-off in lead time vs ordering costs since usually LLT ( direct import sourcing channel ) has lower sourcing cost. In this context, Tailored Base-Surge (TBS) policy is a widely used method, wherein at each period, a constant order is placed via the LLT channel, and a dynamic order is placed to match an inventory order-up-to level via the JIT channel respectively. The JIT channel’s order-up-to level essentially implies aSafety Stockmaintained to address suddendemand surges(Xin and Goldberg, 2018). Although, such policies present fairly intuitive approaches to handle the dual sourcing problem, but the optimality analysis of such policies has been a hard problem in general (Whittemore and Saunders, 1977), except for certain edge cases. Interestingly, the optimal policy is shown to be vanilla base-stock policy when the lead time difference between LLT and JIT channels is exactly 1 period (Fukuda, 1964). Reinforcement Learning for Supply Chain OptimizationRecently, the progress of applying Machine Learning in various optimization problems (Bello et al., 2016; Silver et al., 2016; Khalil et al., 2017; Nazari et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2021; Bengio et al., 2021; Liu et al., 2022; Liu, 2022; Sinclair et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023; Shao et al., 2024) motivates its application in inventory management problems (Madeka et al., 2022; Qi et al., 2023; Liang et al., 2024a,b; Chen et al., 2025). In this context, Deep RL approaches have emerged more recently over its otherModel-Based counterparts, due to improved computational scalability and generalization performance of Deep Neural Network (DNN) architectures. Furthermore, DRL methods have been shown to achieve performance gains over benchmarks for the multi-period newsvendor problem under fairly realistic assumptions on costs, prices, demand and stationarity (Balaji et al., 2019). It is worth highlighting that DRL for single sourcing problem has been comprehensively investigated with extensive empirical evidences at Amazon (Madeka et al., 2022). Capacity Management and Coordinatation MechanismRetailers typically manage a supply chain for multiple products and has limited capacity resources (such as storage) that are shared amongst all the products that retailer stocks. The classic method for handling capacity constraints is to call a simulation and optimization process to compute shadow prices on the shared resources. Model 2 predictive control (MPC) consists of using a model to forward simulate a system to optimize control inputs and satisfy any constraints. At each time step, one re-plans based on updated information that has become available in order to select the next control input. Recent work Maggiar et al. (2024) introduced the Consensus Planning Protocol (CPP), which targets problems where multiple agents (each of which is locally optimizing its own utility function) all consume a shared resource. This is closely related to a distributed ADMM procedure (Boyd et al., 2011). Another work Eisenach et al. (2024) presented a new capacity control mechanism for RL-based buying policies and proposed a Neural Coordinator model to generate forecasts of capacity prices. Their formulation of capacitated inventory management can be viewed as a special case of CPP (a central coordinator adjusts prices, and the other agents adjust their plans). 3 A Deep RL Approach for the Dual Sourcing Problem 3.1 Modeling the Dual Sourcing Problem as an Exo-IDP In this section we model the dual sourcing problem as anExogenous Interactive Decision Process (Exo-IDP) following the framework introduced in Madeka et al. (2022). In an Exo-IDP, the state describing the system dynamics decompose into (i)Exogenousprocesses, which evolve independently of the buy policy’s actions, and (ii)Endogenousprocesses that are impacted by the agent’s actions and the exogenous signals. We consider the case of a retailer managing a set Aof products for Ttime steps, where the objective is to maximize revenue by placing orders to bothlong lead time(LLT) and JIT sources. To succinctly describe our process, we focus on just one product i∈ A , though we note that decisions can be made jointly for every product. StateThe price received at sale, costs incurred on JIT purchase, and holding costs are denoted as pi t,cJ,i t, and hi t, respectively. For LLT orders, the retailer typically receives a discount on the cost of goods sold, so there is a different cost incurred on purchase cL,i t. , Additionally, the demand for product iat time tis denoted as di t. The aforementioned set of variables are completely exogenous, and therefore their evolution is independent of any policy’s interaction with the Exo-IDP. Together these exogenous processes form the state as follows, si t≜  di t, pi t, cJ,i t, cL,i t, ,ρJ,i t,ρL,i t,MJ,i t,ML,i t .(1) The history of the joint process up to timetis defined as Ht:={(ki 0, si 1, . . . , si t)}|A| i=1, whereki 0is the initial inventory level. Product-level histories can be defined similarly. ActionsFor product i, action ai timplies placing orders via JIT, LLT channels at time t. In other words, agent’s interaction with the Exo-IDP is only via placing orders. More precisely, ai t≜(qJ,i t, qL,i t).(2) So we haveai t∈R2. For a class of policies parameterized byθ, we can defined the actions as ai t=πi θ,t(Ht).(3) We define the set of these policies asΠ≜{πi t(;θ)|θ∈Θ, i∈A, t∈[0, T−1]}. External Sourcing ProcessesAfter orders are created and submitted to vendors, they can arrive in multiple shipments over time, and the total arriving quantity may not necessarily sum up to the order quantity placed. Any constraints the vendor imposes on the retailer’s orders MJ,i t∈Rdv– such as minimum order quantities and batch sizes – are exogenous to the ordering decisions. We define an order quantity post-processor on the JIT source fJ p:R≥0×Rdv→R≥0that may modify the order quantity. The final order quantity submitted to the vendor is denoted as ˜qJ,i t:=fJ p(qJ,i t,MJ,i t). Similarly, the final LLT order quantity is defined as˜qL,i t:=fL p(qL,i t,ML,i t). 3 At every time t, the vendor has allocated a supply UJ,i tthat denotes the maximum number of units it can send (regardless the amount we order), which will arrive over from the current week up to L1weeks in the future according to an exogenousarrival sharesprocess (ρJ,i t,0, ..., ρJ,i t,L1)whereP lρJ,i t,l= 1andρJ,i t,l≥0for alli,tandl. The arrival quantity at lead timejfrom orderqJ,i tcan be denote as oJ,i t,j:= min(UJ,i t,˜qJ,i t)ρJ,i t,j. The LLT arrival quantities are defined similarly and denoted asoL,i t,j:= min(UL,i t,˜qL,i t)ρL,i t,j. In brief, the overall sourcing processes from the initial order quantity to final arrivals can be modeled as oJ,i t,j:= min(UJ,i t, fp(qJ,i t,MJ,i t))ρJ,i t,j,(4) oL,i t,j:= min(UL,i t, fp(qL,i t,ML,i t))ρL,i t,j.(5) Internal Inventory Dynamics Ii t−andIi tdenote the on-hand inventory for product iat the beginning and end of a periodt, respectively. The inventory update rule is given as follows, Ii t−=Ii t−1+L1X j=0oJ,i t,j+L2X j=0oL,i t,j,(6) and Ii t= max{Ii t−−di t,0}.(7) Reward FunctionWe formulate the reward realized at ttaking into account the current period inventory costs and sales. The construction of reward in our problem is such that it measures the periodic cash outflows caused due to replenishment and holding costs of inventory, and inflows are attributed to customer sales. It is defined as Ri t≜pi tmin(di t, Ii t−)−cJ,i tL1X j=0oJ,i t,j−cL,i tL1X j=0oL,i t,j−hi tIi t.(8) Hence, computation of reward is essentially a function of history vector Htand policy parameters θ, R(H t, si t, θ).1 3.2 The Dual Sourcing Optimization Problem In our setting, we aim to maximize the total discounted2reward across the Tlength time horizon in expectation, while accounting for other constraints. In the following, we state the dual sourcing optimization problemP 1, P1: max θ∈ΘEhX i∈AT−1X t=0γtRi t(θ)i ,(9) s.t. Ii 0=Ii,(10) Equations(3−7),(11) where Eq. (9) is the expression for initial inventory. 3.3 Scaling the Learning by Forecasting Sourcing Processes In practice, we do not actually observe the full supply and arrival share processes for either the JIT or LLT sources. Under the IDP model described in the previous section, we only observe the arrivals share processes when an order was placed historically and we only observe the supply process when 1Reward is a function of current period action ai twhich is computed via policy πparameterized by θ, and inputH t. 2This discounted reward implies time value of actual cash flows. The discounting factor here isγ. 4 we do not receive the full order quantity. To handle this censoring we directly forecast thearrivals (Andaz et al., 2024) instead of the supply and arrival shares processes. To see why this makes sense, note that the dynamics (6)and reward function (8)depend only on the arrivals oJ,i t,j:= min(UJ,i t, fp(qJ,i t,MJ,i t))ρJ,i t,jandoL,i t,j:= min(UL,i t, fp(qL,i t,ML,i t))ρL,i t,j. Thus, for the purposes of constructing our simulator from historic data, we forecast arrivals conditional on the action ai trather than estimating the post-processing behavior and the supply and arrival share processes. ArrivalsFor arrivals, denoting byHi t,Othe observed components ofHi t, one can forecast p(oJ,i t,0, . . . , oJ,i t,L1|Hi t,O;ψ1).(12) Note that conditioning on Hi t,O,θis equivalent to conditioning on Hi t,O,ψ1and the past JIT order actionsai sfors≤t. 3.4 The Deep RL Algorithm for Training the Buy Policy Firstly, recall that parameters θ∈Θ at any time tessentially dictates the RL agent’s policy as ex- pressed in eq. (3), therefore our problem reduces to learning optimal parameters θ⋆∈Θ. Specifically, we leverage a Deep Neural Network (DNN) architecture for π(·,·;θ) . So,θin our DRL framework essentially implies the weights and parameters of the constituent neurons in the policy network. We applied the same DNN architecture as used in Madeka et al. (2022). The detailed training algorithm can be found in Appendix C. 4 Experimental Evaluations 4.1 Training/Evaluation Configurations Real-world DatasetWe use the same real-world dataset as used in Madeka et al. (2022) with approximately 80,000 products for 124 weeks from April 2017 to August 2019. Out of the 124 weeks, we treat the first 72 weeks as training dataset and the remaining 52 as the backtesting dataset. However, in future iterations, we plan to train the DRL models on 104 weeks so that the policy agents can better track seasonal patterns. BaselinesWe compare our Dual Sourcing RL ( DualSrc-RL ) buy policy against several baselines, i.e.BaseStockHorizonTip (BSHT) ,Tailored Base Surge (TBS),Just-in-time RL (JIT-RL). The first two are classic operation research baselines and theJIT-RLis the RL baseline where the RL model is trained as a single-sourcing model (Madeka et al., 2022). More detailed description of those baselines are reported in Appendix A. 4.2 Main Results and Analytics We use the training dataset to train the RL algorithms and perform evaluation experiments for the compared algorithms over the test dataset. The evaluation results are reported in Table 1. Setting Method % ofBSHT JIT PolicyBSHT 100 JIT-RL 104.78 Dual SourcingTBS 117.69 DualSrc-RL 121.54 Table 1: Cumulative discounted rewards (as % of BSHT ) for 52 backtest periods for different policy methods. From the results above, we can observe that overall dual sourcing strategies DualSrc-RL ,TBSare favorable in terms of rewards. Furthermore, DualSrc-RL is most profitable in all the run scenarios, and has4%reward gains overTBS. 5 5 Capacity Management with Neural Coordination Having formulated the unconstrained inventory control problem in P1, now we consider a constrained situation, where network capacity constraints are introduced, and considered as part of the exogenous process. We are interested in studying the constrained problem because it is a challenging variant in real-world supply chain applications. A large retailer typically manages a supply chain for multiple products and has limited resources (such as storage) that are shared amongst all the products that retailer stocks. Specifically, we have the following set of formulas representing the storage capacity constraints, G:={K 0, K2, ..., K T−1}.(13) The constrained problemP 1can be obtained by adding the capacity constraints (15) toP 1, P2: max θ∈ΘEhX i∈AT−1X t=0γtRi t(θ)i ,(14) s.t. X i∈AviIi t≤K t, .(15) For the reward function, we modify the unconstrained reward to incorporate a penalty according to the capacity prices, Rλ,i t≜Ri t−λtviIi t,(16) whereλ tis the storage capacity price at timet. 5.1 Forecasting the Capacity Prices by a Neural Coordinatator The role of coordinator agent is to predict capacity prices for the targeting inventory network given any capacity constraints as input. One example of a coordination mechanism is model predictive control (MPC), which would use forecasted demand to perform a dual cost search for the next L periods. However, for an RL buying policy that uses many historical features, model predictive control would require forward simulating many features and it may be difficult to model the full joint distribution of all these features. Instead, we apply a coordination approach as used in (Eisenach et al., 2024) by introducing a deep learning model for this problem. Specifically, we train a neural network to forecast the future prices of capacity that would be required to constrain the dual sourcing RL buying policy. Specifically, we learn a neural network to predict, (λt, λt+1, ..., λ t+L) =ϕ ω(Ht, G),(17) whereH tdenotes the historical state vector andGdenotes the capacity constraints. In the next, we introduce the optimization problem for learning the neural coordinator. First, assume a fixed dual sourcing buying policy θ. Below we describe the ways in which the coordinator’s Exo-IDP deviates from the buying agent’s Exo-IDP. The coordinator solves the following problem: P3: min ω∈ΩEhT−1X t=0(X i∈AviIi t−K t)2 ++||λ t||+L  λt, Hλ ti ,(18) (19) whereL  λt, Hλ t denotes the total capacity price forecast error at timet, L  λt, Hλ t =LX s=1||λt−(ˆλL t−s)L−s||2,(20) which is the mean squared error (MSE) of all past forecasts for the current cost. The training algorithm for the neural coordinator can be found in Appendix. 6 5.2 Evaluation Results In this section, we backtest our proposed dual sourcing buy policy with neural coordinator for storage capacity management. Compared Policies and BaselinesWe compare our unconstrained Dual Sourcing RL ( DualSrc-RL ) buy policy (as the baseline) with its two constrained variants. For the first variant, the neural coordinator is used to constrain the DualSrc-RL agent, and a MPC predictor is used to constrain DualSrc-RLas the second variant. Performance MetricsIn addition to measuring reward achieved by the various policies, we consider several additional measures of constraint violation. They are (M1) mean constraint violation, (M2) mean violation on weeks where either unconstrained policy met at least 90% of the limit, (M3) percent of weeks where the violation exceeded 10% and (M4) percent of weeks where constraint violation exceeded 10% and either unconstrained policy exceeded 90% of the capacity limit. ResultsThe Table 2 shows the results on the out-of-training backtesting period, where each combina- tion of policy and coordinator were evaluated against 100 sampled storage constraint paths. Note that under all metrics (both violation and reward) the DualSrc-RL policy with neural coordinator outperforms DualSrc-RL with MPC. Although some of the violation metrics seem somewhat high, one should keep in mind that many of the capacity curves sampled will be highly constraining, much more so than in a real-world setting – in practice if the supply chain were so constrained, one would build more capacity. Table 2: Out-of-distribution evaluation results. Violations Initialization Buy Algo Coordinator M1 M2 M3 M4 Reward DualSrc-RL - 28.9% 54.7% 35.8% 67.8%100 Onhand + DualSrc-RL Neural3.5 % 6.7% 9.1% 17.3%99.7 Inflight DualSrc-RL MPC 13.3% 25.1% 18.2% 34.1% 96.9 The Figure 1 below shows two examples of trajectories in the evaluation period for our DualSrc-RL (DS-RL) buy policies with their coordinator settings (unconstrained, Neural coordinator or MPC). We can see that the neural coordinator is able to constrain the on hand inventory within the capacity limit on the out-of-training backtesting period. Figure 1: Inventory trajectories under different constraint paths during the out-of-training period. 6 Conclusion and Future Work In this paper, we investigates ML-based inventory control methodologies with the consideration of stochastic supply chain processes that introduce scalable representation models to mitigate the supply 7 risk and optimize the complex cross-product constraints/resources. Specifically, we investigate how to efficiently build a Deep RL framework for the problem by forecasting the real-world supply chain processes under a range of assumptions. We also introduce a capacity control mechanism, designed to forecast shadow prices given the capacity constraints of the inventory network. We highlight that instead of directly modeling the complex physical constraints into the learning pipeline and solving the problem as a whole, our approach breaks down those supply chain processes into different DL modules, leading to improved performance on larger real-world retail datasets. For future research, it is interesting to develop efficient modules for approximating other cross-product dependencies in real-world supply chain networks, e.g. containerization processes in global transportation, truck-load and placement. 8 References ANDAZ, S., EISENACH, C., MADEKA, D., TORKKOLA, K., JIA, R., FOSTER, D. and KAKADE, S. (2024). Learning an inventory control policy with general inventory arrival dynamics. arXiv:2310.17168. BALAJI, B., BELL-MASTERSON, J., BILGIN, E., DAMIANOU, A., GARCIA, P. M., JAIN, A., LUO, R., MAGGIAR, A., NARAYANASWAMY, B. and YE, C. (2019). Orl: Reinforcement learning benchmarks for online stochastic optimization problems.arXiv:1911.10641. BELLO, I., PHAM, H., LE, Q. V., NOROUZI, M. and BENGIO, S. (2016). Neural combinatorial optimization with reinforcement learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.09940. BENGIO, Y., LODI, A. and PROUVOST, A. (2021). Machine learning for combinatorial optimization: a methodological tour d’horizon.European Journal of Operational Research290405–421. BOYD, S., PARIKH, N., CHU, E., PELEATO, B., ECKSTEIN, J.ET AL. (2011). Distributed optimization and statistical learning via the alternating direction method of multipliers.Foundations and Trends® in Machine learning31–122. CHEN, R., LIU, D., JIANG, N., GUPTA, R., KILINC, M. and LODI, A. (2025). Learning maritime inventory routing optimization.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.15244. EISENACH, C., GHAI, U., MADEKA, D., TORKKOLA, K., FOSTER, D. and KAKADE, S. (2024). Neural coordination and capacity control for inventory management.arXiv:2410.02817. FUKUDA, Y. (1964). Optimal policies for the inventory problem with negotiable leadtime.Manage- ment Science10690–708. KHALIL, E., DAI, H., ZHANG, Y., DILKINA, B. and SONG, L. (2017). Learning combinatorial optimization algorithms over graphs.Advances in neural information processing systems30. LIANG, J., JENA, S. D., LIU, D. and LODI, A. (2024a). A reinforcement learning approach for dynamic rebalancing in bike-sharing system.arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03589. LIANG, J., LIU, D., JENA, S. D., LODI, A. and VIDAL, T. (2024b). Dual policy reinforcement learning for real-time rebalancing in bike-sharing systems.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.00868. LIU, D. (2022).Machine Learning Algorithms for Combinatorial Optimization. Ecole Polytechnique, Montreal (Canada). LIU, D., FISCHETTI, M. and LODI, A. (2022). Learning to search in local branching.Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence363796–3803. LIU, D., LODI, A. and TANNEAU, M. (2021). Learning chordal extensions.Journal of Global Optimization813–22. LIU, D., PERREAULT, V., HERTZ, A. and LODI, A. (2023). A machine learning framework for neighbor generation in metaheuristic search.Frontiers in Applied Mathematics and Statistics9 1128181. MADEKA, D., TORKKOLA, K., EISENACH, C., LUO, A., FOSTER, D. and KAKADE, S. (2022). Deep inventory management.arXiv:2210.03137. MAGGIAR, A., DICKER, L. and MAHONEY, M. (2024). Consensus planning with primal, dual, and proximal agents.arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.16462. NAZARI, M., OROOJLOOY, A., SNYDER, L. and TAKÁC, M. (2018). Reinforcement learning for solving the vehicle routing problem.Advances in neural information processing systems31. QI, M., SHI, Y., QI, Y., MA, C., YUAN, R., WU, D. and SHEN, Z.-J. (2023). A practical end-to-end inventory management model with deep learning.Management Science69759–773. SHAO, Z., WANG, P., ZHU, Q., XU, R., SONG, J., BI, X., ZHANG, H., ZHANG, M., LI, Y., WU, Y. ET AL. (2024). Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open language models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03300. 9 SILVER, D., HUANG, A., MADDISON, C. J., GUEZ, A., SIFRE, L., VANDENDRIESSCHE, G., SCHRITTWIESER, J., ANTONOGLOU, I., PANNEERSHELVAM, V., LANCTOT, M.ET AL. (2016). Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search.nature529484–489. SINCLAIR, S. R., FRUJERI, F. V., CHENG, C.-A., MARSHALL, L., BARBALHO, H. D. O., LI, J., NEVILLE, J., MENACHE, I. and SWAMINATHAN, A. (2023). Hindsight learning for mdps with exogenous inputs. InInternational Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR. WHITTEMORE, A. S. and SAUNDERS, S. (1977). Optimal inventory under stochastic demand with two supply options.SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics32293–305. XIN, L. and GOLDBERG, D. A. (2018). Asymptotic optimality of tailored base-surge policies in dual-sourcing inventory systems.Management Science64437–452. 10 A Baseline Methods A.1 Improved Tailored Base Surge Policy We adopt a modified version of vanilla Tailored Base Surge ( TBS) policy which has been described in Xin and Goldberg (2018). For each product i, TBS policy will place adynamicLLT order qi,TBS L,t every period. In our problem setting, this LLT order will arrive with lead-time ofδ L. Whereas, for orders through JIT channel, this TBS policy will first calculate a dynamic target order- upto-level Ii,Tip t via the production “Horizon Tip Calculator” method. Consequently, TBSpolicy places also places a dynamic order for the JIT channel i.e., qi,TBS J,t that can bring back the inventory level to Ii,Tip t. With on-hand inventory at the end of the period, Ii t, the JIT order at time tis given by: qi,TBS J,t= max( 0, Ii,Tip t−Ii t−"t−1X ˜t=0t+δi,Pred tX k=t  oJ,i ˜t,k−˜t+oL,i ˜t,k−˜t#) ,(21) where δi,Pred t is the median forecasted VLT at time tfor product i. In other words, Improved TBS subtracts on-hand and inflight inventory from the Horizon Tip to compute JIT orders for current period. The order quantities qi,TBS J,t, qi,TBS L,t will arrive according to the underlying quantity over time arrival models. Choice of LLT Order Input:We set LLT order quantities qi,TBS L as scaled 12-week rolling mean of product-level demands from training set, i.e.,qi,TBS L,t=α·1 12·Pt−1 ˜t=t−11di ˜t. The order scaling factor αis used in our experiments as a search parameter for getting optimalTBSpolicy. A.2 Other Baseline Policies 1.We use a single source JIT Base Stock Policy with orders dictated by eq. (21) which we call BaseStockHorizonTip(BSHT). 2.The existing RL buying policy for JIT single source from the literature (Madeka et al., 2022). B Input Features B.1 Featurization for Buying Policy In terms of features, we mainly use the following feature list provided to the buying policy: 1. The current inventory level 2. Previous actions aiu that have been taken 3. Time series features (a) Historical availability corrected demand (b) Distance to public holidays (c) Historical website glance views data 4. Static product features (a) Product group (b) Text-based features from the product description (c) Brand (d) V olume 5. Economics of the product - (price, cost etc.) 6. Capacity costs – past costs and forecasted future costs B.2 Featurization for Neural Coordinator The neural coordinator takes the following aggregate/population level features: 11 1. Aggregated actions, inventory, demands for all current and previous times (a) Order quantities (b) Inventory (c) Availability corrected demand (d) Inbound (e) All the above, but weighted by inbound and storage volumes 2. Forecasted quantities for next L weeks. (a) Mean demand at lead time (b) Inventory after expected drain at lead time (c) All the above, but weighted by inbound and storage volumes 3. Other time series features (a) Distance to public holidays (b) Mean economics of products - (price, cost etc.), weighted by demand and volumes 4. Capacity costs (past costs and forecasted future costs) C Training Algorithms C.1 Training Algorithm for the Buy Policy Observe that constraints of P1(9)are in fact definitions for different components of the reward function, and, therefore can be omitted from the optimization problem formulation otherwise. Next, we present the Direct Backpropagation (DirectBP-DualSrc) training algorithm for DRL policy. Algorithm 1Direct Backpropagation DRL training algorithm (DualSrc-RL) Input:set of productsA, training batch sizeM, step size:η,θ 0∈Θ. Initialize:Batch Iterator:b←1. whileθis not convergeddo Sample mini-batch of productsA bof sizeMfromA. and setRb←0. fori∈ A bdo Ri←0,Ii 0←Ii. fort= 0, . . . , TTrain−1do Place orders  qi J,t, qi L,t =πi t(Ht;θb−1). Sample JIT, LLT arrivals(oJ,i t,0, . . . , oJ,i t,L1, oL,i t,0, . . . , oL,i t,L2). Update inventoryIi taccording to (6) and (7). Collect rewardRi taccording to (8) Ri←Ri t+γt·Ri t. end for Rb←Rb+Ri. end for θb←θb−1+η· ∇ θPb 1 θ=θb−1. //Update Parameters of Policy Networkπ(·,·;θ). b←b+ 1. end while C.2 Training Algorithm for the Neural Coordinator We implement of the training algorithm for learning the neural coordinator for our dual sourcing problem. Specifically, we train the coordinator by solving the problem ( P3). Similar to the training algorithm for the dual sourcing buy policy, we apply the Direct Backpropagation algorithm to optimize the loss objective 18 in (P 3). The pseudo code of the training algorithm is shown in Algorithm 2. 12 Algorithm 2Training algorithm for the Neural Coordinator Input:set of productsA, training batch sizeM, step size:η, given buy policyθ, {Ii}i∈A, δL, ϵ, initial neural coordinatorω 0∈Ω. Initialize:Batch Iterator:b←1. whilestop criterion is not satisfieddo Sample mini-batch of productsA bof sizeMfromA. and setRb←0. fori∈A bdo Ri←0,Ii 0←Ii. fort= 0, . . . , TTrain−1do Collect instantaneous state and history vectorsi t,Ht. Place orders qi J,t, qi L,t =πi t(Ht, si t;θ). Sample JIT, LLT arrivals(oJ,i t,0, . . . , oJ,i t,L1, oL,i t,0, . . . , oL,i t,L2). Collect rewardRi tand update inventoryIi t. end for end for Update global state and compute coordination loss by Equation 18. ωb←ω b−1+η· ∇ ωPb 3 ω=ω b−1. //Update Parameters of the Neural Coordinatorϕ(·,·;ω). b←b+ 1. end while 13