Hybrid Quantum-Classical Optimization for Multi-Objective Supply Chain Logistics Raoul Heese1,*, Timothée Leleu2,3, Sam Reifenstein2, Christian Nietner1, and Yoshihisa Yamamoto2 1NTT Data Germany 2NTT Research 3Stanford University *corresponding author: raoul.heese@nttdata.com Abstract A multi-objective logistics optimization problem from a real-world supply chain is formulated as a Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization Problem (QUBO) that minimizes cost, emissions, and de- livery time, while maintaining target distributions of supplier workshare. The model incorporates realistic constraints,includingpartdependencies,doublesourcing,andmultimodaltransport. Twohybridquantum- classical solvers are proposed: a structure-aware informed tree search (IQTS) and a modular bilevel frame- work(HBS),combiningquantumsubroutineswithclassicalheuristics. ExperimentalresultsonIonQ’sAria-1 hardware demonstrate a methodology to map real-world logistics problems onto emerging combinatorial optimization-specialized hardware, yielding high-quality, Pareto-optimal solutions. 1 Introduction Theinterdependentstructureofglobalsupplychains forcomplexmanufacturingischaracterizedbymulti- factorial requirements that address economic, envi- ronmental, social, and political constraints. These factors require careful balancing of potentially con- flictingobjectives,suchascost,sustainability,andre- silience [7]. The underlying combinatorial problems inglobalsupplychainoptimizationaretypicallyNP- hard, making them notoriously difficult to solve at scale. Recent research has turned to novel comput- ing paradigms, including specialized hardware like Ising machines [39] and quantum annealers [1], to address these challenges more efficiently. However, solving real-world optimization prob- lems with these emerging platforms remains a con- siderableopenproblemduetocurrenttechnological limitations [1]. As a result, identifying suitable ap- plicationsfornon-classicalcomputingapproachesis anactiveareaofresearch[28]. Inthiscontext,itisim- portanttoexploreusecasesthatarebothsufficiently hardtosolveandcapableofdeliveringreal-worldim- pact if solved more effectively. These criteria apply to supply chain optimization, making it a promis-ing use case candidate for further research. In this paper,ahybridquantum-classicalapproachisdevel- oped to solve a real-world, multi-objective logistics optimization problem. Our approach combines specialized model- ing with hybrid quantum-classical and quantum- inspired solvers. We integrate high-performance classical optimization techniques with advanced quantummethods,allowingustoestimatethePareto frontier of a multi-objective optimization problem. For our numerical evaluations, we useAria-1[11], a state-of-the-art and commercially deployed quan- tumhardwaretrapped-ionquantumcomputerfrom IonQ. Since we focus on scalability and modularity, our findings are also applicable to a more general scope, opening up opportunities to leverage special- purpose Ising machines for complex real-world op- timization problems. Our main contributions are as follows. We de- veloped a multi-objective Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization Problem (QUBO) model, aim- ing to optimize four Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of a logistics network: carbon dioxide emis- sions, costs, time, and supplier target workshare fulfillment. The model integrates real-world con- 1arXiv:2602.05364v1 [math.OC] 5 Feb 2026 straints such as mandatory workshare limits, mul- tiple transportation modes, and dependencies be- tweenparts. TheformulationasaQUBOwasdriven by the enabling of quantum algorithms. Next, we designed specialized solver tools—Informed Solu- tion Generator (ISG), Informed Solution Fixer (ISF), and Informed Solution Improver (ISI)—that exploit problem-specificknowledgetoconstruct,repair,and refine solutions iteratively, improving solution qual- ityandfeasibility. Weproposetwohybridquantum- classicalsolvers: InformedQuantum-EnhancedTree Solver(IQTS)andHybridQuantum-ClassicalBilevel Solver(HBS).IQTSaimsatexploitingourknowledge about the problem structure to achieve a very fast convergence. It is tightly tailored to the problem by integratingtheQuantumApproximateOptimization Algorithm (QAOA) into an explorative tree decom- position. HBS is a general high-performance strat- egy with a highly modular architecture. It is aimed at providing computational speed, and scalability by combining quantum methods such as QAOA, quantum-inspired methods such as Chaotic Ampli- tude Control with Momentum (CACm), and clas- sical methods such as Iterative Belief Propagation (IBP) and Dynamic Anisotropic Smoothing (DAS) into a bilevel optimization framework. We test our algorithms on an industrially relevant logistic net- workprovidedbyAirbusandareabletofindPareto- optimal solution candidates. The remaining paper is structured a follows. In Section 2, we outline related work. Subsequently, in Section3,wedescribetheusecase. Oursolutionap- proachesarethenpresentedinSection5. InSection6, weshowtheresultsofournumericalevaluationsand experiments. WeendwithaconclusioninSection7. 2 Related work Quantumoptimizationinanemergingfield[1]with manydifferentapplicationdomains,mostlyfocusing onQUBOs[46]. Multi-objectiveQUBOshavealready been considered [5], also with respect to different scalarisation[4]andstandardizationtechniques[30]. Significantefforthasbeendedicatedinrecentyears to advancing hybrid quantum-classical methodolo- giesforlogisticsoptimization,particularlytoaddress the computational limitations of current quantum hardware. A hybrid workflow has been proposed to tackle real-scale multi-truck vehicle routing prob- lemsthroughiterativequantumcomputations,mak- ingitfeasibleforNoisyIntermediate-ScaleQuantum (NISQ) devices by segmenting complex tasks into manageable quadratic optimization instances suit-ableforquantumannealers[48]. Similarly,quantum annealing has been used effectively for the Trans- port Network Design Problem (TNDP), formulated as QUBO, providing computational benefits over classicalTabusearchmethods,withimplicationsex- tendingacrossvariousnetworkoptimizationscenar- ios [15]. Furthermore, a quantum-classical strategy calledQ4RPDhas been developed, specifically ad- dressingrealisticconstraintsinvehiclerouting,such asheterogeneousvehiclefleets,utilizingtheD-Wave Leap solver [42]. In addition, QAOA has been ap- pliedtotheHeterogeneousVehicleRoutingProblem (HVRP), demonstrating potential for combinatorial optimization,despitefacingscalabilitychallengesre- lated to the required number of qubits [18]. Variational approaches, such as QAOA and ad- vanced forms of Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE), have been employed to solve job shop scheduling and vehicle routing problems, demon- stratingthefeasibilityofthesetechniquesoncurrent quantum hardware and achieving near-optimal re- sults within small-scale instances [3, 29]. In paral- lel, hybrid annealing frameworks have proven ef- fective in addressing multi-agent pathfinding and complexdeliveryroutingunderrealisticconstraints, withiterativequantumsubproblemsolvingenabling scalabilitytoindustry-relevantscenarios[19]. More- over,hybridlearningarchitecturesintegratingquan- tum circuits into reinforcement learning agents or neural networks have achieved competitive perfor- manceinlogisticsapplicationslikefleetdispatchand backorder prediction, revealing promising intersec- tions between quantum machine learning and sup- ply chain analytics [12, 23]. 3 Use case The 2024Quantum Computing Challengefrom Airbus andBMW[2]containedataskinwhichthegoalwas to optimize a logistics network for a sustainable air- craft manufacturing process within a global supply chain. One aspect of the supply chain of the Airbus air- craft manufacturing process is to decide, by which supplier at which global production sites, the air- craft parts are produced and how they are trans- ported between these sites for assembling. The goal is to minimize costs, production time, carbon diox- ide emissions, and supplier target workshare fulfill- mentswhileensuringcertainconstraintsthatrequire thattheassignmentsaresufficientlydistributedboth between all suppliers and all production sites. This logisticsproblemisaparticularlychallengingaspect 2 of the supply chain optimization and was proposed byAirbus. Inthefollowing,theAirbussupplychain problem is used to illustrate the proposed method, which isgeneral andapplicable toa broaderclass of optimization problems. 4 Model To begin with, we first present a detailed prob- lem description, followed by a formal definition of the properties of a problem instance. Subsequently, we provide a multi-objective Quadratic Constrained Binary Optimization Problem (QCBO) formulation and show how it can be reduced to a scalarized QUBO form. 4.1 Problem description The supply chain logistics model we consider is based on the production of a single product. This product is assembled from a number of individual parts—48 in the case of the Airbus aircraft. The so- calledProductBreakdownStructure(PBS)shownin Fig. 1a describes the dependency of the parts as a treestructure. Eachnodeisapartanditschildnodes indicate which other parts are required for its pro- duction. The parts represented by leaf nodes can therefore be produced without any dependencies. The completed aircraft is shown as the root. Each part can be assigned a level (from 0 to 4) that indi- cates how many production steps it takes for it to be integrated into the final product. In total, there are29suppliers, each of which can produce a specific selection of parts at specific pro- duction sites. To produce a part at a specific site, all parts it depends on must be available at the same site. To that end, parts can be transported from one sitetoanother. Transportationcanbedonebydiffer- ent means depending on the start and end site and the part to be transported. Options include trucks, ships,andcargoplanes. Eachmodeoftransportation is associated with carbon dioxide emissions, costs, and transportation time. A part can either be trans- ported directly or indirectly via certain hubs, called warehouses, where it can be transshipped. Conse- quently,alargevarietyoftransportationoptionscan beselectedforeachpart. Weconsider43production sitesand28warehousesassketchedinFig.1b,which are distributed globally across18different regions. To improve the supply chain resilience, it is nec- essary to install double sourcing, if possible. This meansthattheproductionofeachpartisproportion- ally split between two production sites (and suppli-ers),theprimarysite(supplier)andthesecondarysite (supplier). While the two sites (primary production site and secondary production site) must be differ- ent, the respective suppliers (primary supplier and secondary supplier) can be the same. Additionally, if possible, the two sites must be located in different regions. Regardless of whether it is produced as a primaryorsecondaryproduction,eachpartistrans- portedtoboththeprimaryandsecondaryprocessing sites,resultinginuptofournecessarytransportation routesperpart. Theonlyexceptionaretwoimmobile parts, which can only be produced and processed at the same site, which they will never leave. Each part is assigned a relative cost that measures its value in relation to the other parts. This relative cost is used to ensure a shared distribution of the productionprocessamongdifferentproductionsites andsuppliers. Forthispurpose,eachmanufacturing site and each supplier has a predefined lower and upper limit for the cumulative costs of the products produced,knownastheworkshare. Inaddition,each supplier has a fixed target for the workshare that should ideally be achieved. In summary, the task is a multi-objective assign- ment problem in which one needs to (i) assign each part to a primary and secondary production site and supplier, and (ii) assign transportation routes tomovepartsbetweenproductionsites(possiblyvia warehouses). The assignments must meet the fol- lowing criteria: (i) compliance with the PBS depen- dencies, (ii) adherence to workshare fulfillment con- straints for production sites and suppliers, and (iii) theprimaryandsecondarysitesforeachpartmustbe distinct and, if possible, located in different regions. ThegoalistojointlyoptimizefourKPIs: cumulative carbon dioxide emissions, costs, production time, and supplier target workshare fulfillments. The first two KPIs are determined by the chosen transporta- tion routes alone, while production time is affected by both the chosen transportation routes and the se- lected production sites and suppliers. Lastly, target workshare fulfillment is determined by the supplier choices. 4.2 Problem instances Aprobleminstanceisdefinedbythefollowingquan- tities: •The set of partsIwith|I|= 48. Each part i∈Iis assigned a valueV i∈R>0, which can be used to calculate the relative valuev i:= 100Vi/V(in percentage) with the total value V:=∑ i∈IVi. Furthermore, each part is as- signed a volumeV i∈R>0(assuming a rectan- 3 aircraft0 1 2 3 4part’s level different route options for each partproduction sites warehousesPBS sitesassign each part to a production site(a) (b)Figure1: Problemsketch: (a)ThePBSshowingdependenciesofall48partswiththeassembledproduct,an aircraft,astheroot. (b)Supplychainsitescomprisedof43productionsitesand28warehouses. Theshown positions do not reflect geographical locations. gularcuboidshape). Theproductiondependen- cies between parts are defined by a set of tuples ϕ∈I2, where(i,j)∈ϕindicates that the pro- duction of partj(called “parent”) requires part i(called “child”). Every child has only one par- ent, which leads to a dependency tree, the PBS. The levelL i:=∑ (i′,j)∈ϕδi′i(Lj+ 1)∈[0,4]of each parti∈Irepresents the necessary num- ber of production steps until the final product as assembled. •The set of production sitesKwith|K|= 43. Eachsitek∈Kisassignedoneregionr∈Rout of the set of all regionsVwith|V|= 18. To this end, we defineV vk∈{0,1}with∑ v∈VVvk= 1 for allk∈K, whereV vk= 1indicates that regionv∈Vis assigned to sitek∈K(and Vvk= 0that it is not assigned). Furthermore, Kmin k∈[0,100]⊂N 0andKmax k∈[0,100]⊂N 0 define the minimum and maximum workshare (inpercentage),respectively,forsitek∈K. The production processes at the sites is not further concerned, it is, for example, presumed that there is always sufficient capacity for immedi- ate production. •ThesetofwarehousesWwith|W|= 28thatcan beusedasintermediatetransportationhubsbut don’t produce anything. •The set of suppliersUwith|U|= 29. For each supplieru∈U,Umin u∈[0,100]⊂Z,Umax u∈ [0,100]⊂N 0, andUtarget u∈[0,100]⊂N 0define theminimum,maximum,andtargetworkshare (in percentage), respectively. •The set of feasible site-supplier combinations fi⊆K×Uthat are capable of producing parti∈Iwith|f i|≥1. Thesetofassignablesitesfor apartiisdenotedbyK i:={k|k∈K∧∃u∈U: (k,u)∈f i}with|K i|≥1. Any partithat can be assigned to at least two sites (i.e.,|K i|≥2) canbeusedfordoublesourcing. Anyotherpart can not be used for double sourcing. The set of assignable regions for a partiis denoted by Vi:={v|v∈V∧V vk= 1∧∃u∈U: (k,u)∈f i} with|Vi| ≤ |Ki|. Any partithat can be as- signed to at least two regions (i.e.,|V i|≥2) can be double sourced in two distinct regions. Fur- thermore,foreachtuple(k,u)∈f i,theproduc- tion time of the corresponding manufacturing process is given byt i→(k,u)∈R≥0. •The(possibleempty)setoftransportationmeth- odsMi p⇒q⊂Mi⊆Mfortransportingparti∈I from site or warehousep∈K∪Wto site or warehouseq∈K∪W,where|M|= 17 073. The mappingscn:=M→R≥0withn∈{1,2,3} yield the carbon dioxide emissions (c1), costs (c2), and transportation time (c3), respectively, for each transportation method. In addition, each transportation method is assigned a total cargo volumeV m∈R>0(assuming a rectangu- lar cuboid shape). We denote the set of trans- portation methods for parti∈IbyM iand the set of all transportation methods byM. •Theprimarysourceshareα i∈[0.5,1]isthefrac- tion of the production of parti∈Iat the pri- mary production site. The secondary share is consequently given by1−α i∈[0,0.5]and rep- resentsthefractionoftheproductionofpartiat the secondary production site. Without loss of generality,theprimarysourceshareisbydefini- 4 tionalwayslargerthanorequaltothesecondary source share, i.e.,α i≥1−αifor alli∈I. The data provided by Airbus contains a single lo- gisticsnetworkfortheproductionofanaircraftwith thePBSshowninFig.1aandtheproductionlocation and warehouses shown in Fig. 1b. This single in- stancecanbevariedbyamodificationoftheprimary source shares (denotedα i). However, we mainly fo- cus on the solution of a single instance version. 4.3 Multi-Objective QCBO Model We use an indexn∈{1,...,4}to label the the four KPIs as carbon dioxide emissions (n= 1), costs (n= 2) production time (n= 3), and supplier tar- get workshare fulfillment (n= 4). We model these quantities in the following way: 1. Todeterminethecarbondioxideemissions(n= 1) and costs (n= 2), we take all chosen trans- portation methods of all parts into account. For eachmodeoftransportation,wecounttheemis- sionsandpricingoftheshipmentinproportion to the relative shipping space occupied by the shipped part. This approach takes into account thefactthateachparttakesuponlyafractionof the available cargo space, so that the remaining space can be filled with other goods and is not wasted. It has a significant impact on the cost of large-capacity transportation modes, such as ships, which would otherwise be counted with theirfullemissionsevenifonlyatinyfractionof their cargo space is used to ship a part. 2. For the production time (n= 3), we consider the weighted cumulative transport times of all selected transportation methods instead of the actual lead time of the assembled product for tworeasons. First,modelingtheexactleadtime greatly increases the complexity of the model. Second, we aim for a robust result, taking into account that in an efficient and resilient supply chain, all transportation modes should be cho- sen as small as possible independently of each other. As a weight of the transportation times we choose the level of the product in the PBS. This choice recognizes that parts deeper in the tree have more (indirect) dependencies, so their transporttimeismoreimportantandshouldre- sult in a relatively larger contribution. 3. For the supplier target workshare fulfillments (n= 4), we choose the cumulative quadratic deviation from the relative target workshare for each supplier. Next, we describe how we realize this modeling approach for the KPIs. To that end, we first discussthe shipment of parts. For each parti∈I, the avail- able transportation methodsM i⊂Mand the joint setofproductionsitesKandwarehousesWcanalso be considered as a graphG i:= (K∪W,M i), where an edgeMi p⇒q⊂Mi⊆Mis meant to understood to connect nodepto nodeq. In short, the graphG i defines how partican be moved between different locations. Transportation methods can be combined into routes, where each router∈Ri k⇒lfrom sitek∈K to sitel∈Krepresent a distinct path on the graph Gi, i.e., it consists of a sequence ofν∈Ntransporta- tion methods (graph edges)r:= (m 1,...,mν)with m1∈Mi k⇒w,ms∈Mi w⇒w′fors∈{2,...,ν−1}, andmν∈Mi w⇒lwithw,w′∈K∪W. Forν >1,r is an indirect route, where forν= 1,r:= (m)with m∈Mi k⇒lis a direct route. By definition, routes al- waysstartandendatproductionsites,buttheymay involve transportation methods which pass through warehouses. Here, we useRi k⇒lto denote the set of all available routes fromktolwhich visit each pro- duction site and warehouse (graph nodes) at most once along the path. Although this set can be quite extensive,itisnotexplicitlyusedinourfinalmodel. This will be clarified further below. IfRi k⇒l=∅, thereisnoavailableconnectionbetweenkandl. The set of all available routes for a partiis denoted by Ri:=∪k,l∈KRi k⇒l. A partiis considered immobile, ifRi=∅(and mobile otherwise). Totakethesedifferentroutingoptionsintoaccount inourmodelingapproach,wedefineasetofterminals foreachpartateachsite,whichistobeunderstoodas asetoflabelsthatcanbeusedtoidentifythedifferent outgoingroutesfromthissitetoothersites,consider- ingallpossibledirectandindirectroutes. Wedefine the set of terminals for parti∈Iat sitek∈Kby Ti k:={1,...,ti k}with the total number of terminals ti k≥1. First of all, we consider a mobile part (with Ri̸=∅), for which the number of terminalsti kis given by the maximum number of outgoing routes overalldestinationssuchthat|Ti k|= maxl∈K|Ri k⇒l|. Then, there exists a surjective but not necessarily in- jective mappingτi kl:Ti k→Ri k⇒lfor alll∈Kwith Ri k⇒l̸=∅, such that each each terminal is assigned to a (not necessarily unique) route. In other words, given a parti∈I, a start sitek∈K, and a destina- tion sitel∈KwithRi k⇒l̸=∅, each terminalt∈Ti k is associated with a router∈Ri k⇒l. Conversely, all routes starting from sitekcan be associated with at leastoneterminalint∈Ti k. Wedefineacorrespond- inginversemapping τi kl:Ri k⇒l→Ti kfromarouteto aterminal,whichistobeunderstoodasanarbitrary but fixed realization of the inversion. We only pre- sumethatsuitablemappingsτi klandτi klexist,butdo 5 not need to define them explicitly. For an immobile part (i.e.,Ri=∅), there are by definitionnooutgoingroutes,independentofwhere the part is produced. In this case, we presume that thereisasingleterminalthatrepresentstheabsence of any transportation. Summarized, we define the the total number of terminals as ti k:={ maxi∈I,l∈K|Ri k⇒l|,ifRi̸=∅ 1,ifRi=∅(1) for any parti∈I, either mobile or immobile. Theconceptofterminalsallowsustointegratedif- ferent routing options into the existing assignment task. For this purpose, in addition to the require- ment that each part must be assigned to a site and supplier, we additional require that it must also be assigned to a terminal at the site. That means that a site-terminal-supplier tuple(k,t,u)withk∈K, t∈Ti kandu∈Umustbeassignedtoeachparti∈I (both for the primary and secondary production). Based on the feasible site-supplier combinationsf i, thefeasiblesite-terminal-suppliertuplesaregivenby Fi:={(k,t,u)|t∈Ti k∀(k,u)∈f i}. Presume a site-terminal-supplier assignment (k,t,u)∈F ifor parti∈Iand a site-terminal- supplier assignment(l,s,v)∈F jfor partj∈I, where(i,j)∈ϕ. Then,τi kl(t) =rassigns a route r:= (m 1,...,mν)∈Ri k⇒l,whichisusedtotransport partifrom sitekto sitel, where partjis produced. By definition, the assigned routerdepends on the siteskandlas well as the terminalt, but not on the suppliersuandv, and also not on the terminalv. Eachtransportationmethodwithintherouterim- plies a shipment that creates carbon dioxide emis-sions, increase costs and takes time. The total con- tribution ofrto the first three KPIs is consequently given by the cumulative contributions of the trans- portation methods along the path, which we define as cin (k,t)⇒(l,s) :=∑ m∈τi kl(t)cn(m)γin(m)(2) forRi k⇒l̸=∅,basedonthetheprescribedKPIcontri- butionscnfrom the problem instance and a custom scaling factorγin≥0. Whilecin (k,t)⇒(l,s)is formally independent of the terminals, we still include it in the notation for clarity. We use the scaling factor γin(m) :={ Vi Vm,ifn∈{1,2} Li,ifn= 3(3) as explained above. Since every part has a non- vanishing volume and must fit into the cargo space, Vi/Vm∈(0,1]. We aim to model the optimization problem as a QUBO. To this end, we define a set of binary vari- ablesy,eachidentifiablebyfiveindices. Specifically, the binary variableya i→(k,t,u)∈{0,1}represents the assignment of parti∈Ito terminalt∈Ti kof site k∈Kand supplieru∈U, with(k,t,u)∈F i. Here, a∈A:={1,2}indicates either whether the assign- ment refers to the the primary production (a= 1) or the secondary production (a= 2). If a parti∈I does not allow double sourcing (i.e.,|K i|= 1), we setya=2 i→(k,t,u):=ya=1 i→(k,t,u), effectively reducing the decision space. With these premises, we can formulate the opti- mization problem as: min y(C1(y),C 2(y),C 3(y),C 4(y))(4) s.t.∑ a,b∈A,u,v∈Uµab iya i→(k,t,u)yb j→(l,s,v) = 0∀(i,j)∈ϕ∀k,l∈K∀t∈Ti k∀s∈Tj l∧Ri k⇒l=∅(4a) ∑ (k,t,u)∈F iya i→(k,t,u) = 1∀i∈I∀a∈A(4b) (∑ (k′,t,u)∈F iδk′kya=1 i→(k,t,u))(∑ (k′,t,u)∈F iδk′kya=2 i→(k,t,u)) = 0∀i∈I∀k∈K∧|K i|≥2(4c) (∑ (k,t,u)∈F iVvkya=1 i→(k,t,u))(∑ (k,t,u)∈F iVvkya=2 i→(k,t,u)) = 0∀i∈I∀v∈V∧|V i|≥2(4d) ∑ i∈I,(k′,t,u)∈F i,a∈Aδk′kviαa iya i→(k,t,u)∈[Kmin k,Kmax k]∀k∈K(4e) ∑ i∈I,(k,t,u′)∈Fi,a∈Aδu′uviαa iya i→(k,t,u)∈[Umin u,Umax u]∀u∈U(4f) 6 In summary, this is a multi-objective QCBO with four KPIs and six types of constraints. As KPIs, we use carbon dioxide emissions (C 1), costs (C 2), and times (C 3) of all used means of transportation for all parts, with the former considered in proportion to the relative volume of the load, and the latter con- sidered in proportion to the level of each part as a measureofitspriority. ThefourthKPIisthesupplier worksharetargetfulfillment(C 4),takenintoaccount asthequadraticdeviationfromthetargetworkshare of each supplier. Formally, the KPIs are defined by Cn(y) :=1 dn∑ (i,j)∈ϕ (k,t,u)∈F i,a∈A (l,s,v)∈F j,b∈A Ri k⇒l̸=0αa icin (k,t)⇒(l,s) (5a) ×ya i→(k,t.u)yb j→(l,s,v) for dioxide emissions (n= 1), costs (n= 2), and transportation times (n= 3), whereas the supplier target workshare fulfillments is defined by C4(y) :=1 d4∑ u∈U[∑ i∈I (k,t,v)∈F i,a∈Aδuvviαa iya i→(k,t,u) (6a) −Utarget u]2 , where we recall the relative valuev i. Furthermore, we make use of the abbreviation αa i:={ αi,ifa= 1 1−αi,ifa= 2(7) for the primary (secondary) source shareα i(1−αi) andintroducetheempiricallychosenrescalingfactor dn:=  ˆcn,ifn∈{1,2} ˆcn=3ˆL ,ifn= 3 100,ifn= 4(8) to align the magnitudes of the KPIs without alter- ing the model structure. It contains the maximum contributions ˆcn:= max i∈I p,q∈K∪W m∈Mi p⇒qcn(m)(9) and the level mid-range ˆL:=mini∈ILi+ maxi∈ILi 2= 2,(10)which is used as an additional factor for the trans- portation times based on the observation that the scaling factor from Eq. (3) does not contain a rela- tive value forn= 3. The constant value100for n= 4is motivated by the percentage measure of the target workshares. By construction, all KPIs are non-negative. The six types of constraints ensure the require- ments of a feasible supply chain: avoid non-existing connections (Eq. (4a)), allow one one assignment for each production source (Eq. (4b)), enforce different sites for primary and secondary source (Eq. (4c)), enforce different regions for primary and secondary sources (Eq. (4d)), respect the site workshare limits (Eq. (4e)), and respect the supplier workshare limits (Eq. (4f)). 4.4 QUBO Model To transform Eq. (4) into a QUBO, we perform the following steps: 1. Equation (4) involves multiple objectives. To reduce the multi-objective assignment problem to a single-objective assignment problem, we perform a scalarization of the KPIs with the weightsw:= (w 1,w2,w3,w4)∈[0,1]4, where∑ nwn= 1, such that the new optimization ob- jective reads∑4 n=1wnCn(y). Different choices of weightswrepresent different compromises between the objectives in the usual sense. 2. The explicit use of terminals results in a large number of terms in some expressions, which makethemcomputationallychallengingtohan- dle. To address this, we employ a two-step pre- processing of the instance: first, a pathfinding stepusingDĳkstra’salgorithmtoeliminatesub- optimal terminals (based on the chosen scalar- ization weightsw), and second, a refinement of the feasible solution space to reduce the overall numberofvariables(indepententoftheweights w). The preprocessing is explained in detail in Section A. As a result, we obtain a reduced model with less terms and variables. 3. The reduced model still contains constraints, which need to be transformed into penalty terms. For the equality constraints, this can be realized straightforwardly. The box constraints, however, must first be converted into equal- ity constraints. To achieve this, we employ a standard method [6], which requires us to ap- proximate the relatives valuesv iand the pri- mary source sharesα ias rational numbers for all partsi∈I. Using auxiliary (ancilla) vari- ablesz∈{0,1}Nz, we can then reformulate the 7 boxconstraintsasequalityconstraintsandtrans- form them into penalty terms. This method is described in Section B. As a result, we arrive at the final QUBO form min xQ(x)(11a) with the objective Q(x) :=Q(w,λ,x)(11b) :=4∑ n=1Cn(w,y) +6∑ n=1λnPn(x), which consists of the four weighted KPIs Cn(wn,y) andthesixpenaltytermsP n(x)withthecorrespond- ing Lagrange multipliersλ n>0, where we use the notationλ:= (λ 1,...,λ 6). Thesetofbinaryvariables x∈{0,1}NxwithNx:=Ny+Nzfully describes the supply chain configuration. All expressions from Eq. (11b) are defined in Section C. The resulting QUBO objective, Eq. (11b), can also be written in a quadratic form Q(x) =x⊺Qx(12) withamatrixQ:=Q(w,λ)∈RNx×Nx. Alternatively, using the coordinate transformations:= 2x−1, the QUBO can also be straightforwardly converted into an Ising optimization problem [34] min sH(w,λ,s)(13a) based on the Isingmodel (also called Ising Hamilto- nian) H(w,λ,s) :=H(s) =s⊺Js+hs(13b) with spin variabless∈ {−1,1}Nx, a matrixJ:= J(w,λ)∈RNx×Nx, and a vectorh:=h(w,λ)∈RNx. 5 Methods To solve Eq. (11), we propose two hybrid quantum- classicalsolvers: InformedQuantum-EnhancedTree Solver(IQTS)andHybridQuantum-ClassicalBilevel Solver (HBS). While IQTS leverages the domain knowledge of the problem structure by integrat- ing QAOA within an exploratory tree decomposi- tion, HBS is a bilevel optimization framework with a highly modular architecture, designed to combine various methods such as QAOA, IBP, CACm, and DAS to enhance flexibility, performance, and scala- bility. Both methods rely on similar solver compo- nents,assketchedinFig.2. Inthefollowing,wefirst describe these components, which then allows us to present IQTS and HBS.5.1 Solver Components In this section, we provide a brief summary over all sevensolvercomponents,whichcanbegroupedinto four categories: •Three classical procedures based on our struc- tural knowledge about the problem, which is why we also call them “informed” procedures: ISG, ISF, and ISI. •A quantum optimization algorithm, QAOA, which is fine-tuned for our problem. •Two classical Ising solvers, IBP and CACm. The latter can also be considered as a quantum- inspired approach. •Aderivative-freehyperparametertuningproce- dure, DAS. All of these components are heuristic algorithms. 5.1.1 Informed Solution Generator (ISG) Since we have a detailed knowledge about the prob- lem structure, we can use this knowledge to gen- erate randomized feasible solutions (that fulfill all constraints). Forthat,weproposethefollowingpro- cedure, which we call Informed Solution Generator (ISG): 1. Start with all parts unassigned. 2. Iteratively draw an unassigned parti∈Ifrom the lowest available PBS level (the reason for thisorderisthatlowerlevelstendtohavefewer available options). 3. Collect all feasible site-supplier pairsg ifor the partithat satisfy the constraints, given the as- signments made previously. Randomly assign the partito one of these options. Repeat this step for the primary and secondary sources. 4. Repeat from step 2 until all parts are assigned, resulting in y. Calculate the correct values for zand return the corresponding solutionx= (y,z), which is a feasible by construction. 5.1.2 Informed Solution Fixer (ISF) We can also exploit the problem structure to project an infeasible solution back to the feasible domain withoutdisturbingitmorethannecessary. Ourpro- posedprocedureInformedSolutionFixer(ISF)works as follows: 1. Startwithx,acandidatesolutiontoEq.(11)that violates the constraints. 2. Iterate through all sitesk∈Kand suppliers u∈Uand mark whether the workshare is overassigned(toomuchworkshare)orunderas- signed(notenoughworkshare). Ifoverassigned, 8 HBS IQTSISG ISF ISI IBP CACm QAOA DASTuning Classical / Quantum-Inspired Ising Quantum Classical InformedFigure 2: Sketch of the algorithmic architecture. We propose two hybrid quantum-classical solvers, IQTS (Section 5.2) and HBS (Section 5.3), which make use of various components: ISG (Section 5.1.1), ISF (Sec- tion 5.1.2), ISI (Section 5.1.3), QAOA (Section 5.1.4), IBP (Section 5.1.5), CACm (Section 5.1.6), DAS (Sec- tion 5.1.7). randomly unassign parts until the workshare is satisfied. This step can lead to an update of y. 3. Iterate through all partsi∈Iof decreasing PBS level and mark whether they are unassigned or wrongfully assigned (i.e., in a way that vi- olates the constraints). Try to reassign each wrongfully assigned part: If there are underas- signed sites/suppliers, try to reassign the mis- matched products to those sites/suppliers and avoid overassigned sites/suppliers. Reassign- ments must meet all constraints. If a reassign- mentcannotberesolved,skipit. Again,thisstep can lead to an update of y. 4. Repeatfromstep2untilallassignmentsarefea- sible,resultingin y,oruntilacertainnumberof iterations have been performed, at which point the method has ran out of budget and no fixed solutioncanbereturned. Incasethatasetoffea- sible assignments has been found, calculate the correct values forzand return a fixed solution x= (y,z), which is feasible by construction. 5.1.3 Informed Solution Improver (ISI) Finally, we can also use our knowledge to iteratively improve the objective of a feasible solution without leaving the feasible domain. For that, we propose a procedure called Informed Solution Improver (ISI), which works in the following way: 1. Start withx, a feasible candidate solution to Eq. (11). 2. Randomly draw a parti∈I. 3. Findallfeasiblecombinationsofprimarysource and secondary source assignments for parti. 4. Iteratethroughthefeasibleoptionsinarandom orderand,iftheywouldleadtoanimprovement in the optimization objective, reassign the part iaccordingly, which leads to an update of y. In case of a reassignment, stop exploring the feasible options with a predefined probability or continue otherwise. Stop when all feasible options have been explored.5. Repeat from step 2 until a certain number of it- erationshasbeenreached. Calculatethecorrect values forzand return an improvedx= ( y,z), whichisfeasiblebyconstructionandleadstoan objective at least as good as the original candi- date solution. 5.1.4 Quantum Approximate Optimization Algo- rithm (QAOA) QAOA [16, 9] is a hybrid quantum-classical heuris- tic to solve Ising optimization problems of the form of Eq. (13) on a gate-based quantum computer. As a special form of Variational Quantum Algorithm (VQA), the key idea is to optimize the parameters ofaparameterizedquantumcircuititerativelyusing a classical optimizer until convergence is achieved. Themeasurementresultsofthequantumdevicethen correspond to candidate solutionssof Eq. (13a). We make use of a variant of QAOA [16] with a problem-specific setup: •Mixer: We choose aXY-mixer [47], which con- sists of correlated Pauli-x and Pauli-y terms 1 2(ˆσi xˆσj x+ ˆσi yˆσj y), for every combination of vari- ables(i,j)that correspond the an assignment of the same product for the same source. This mixerenforcestheconstraintP 2(x). Inaddition, we choose the uncorrelated Pauli-x termsˆσi xfor all ancilla variables. •Initialization: TheinitialstateischosentobeaW state[13,41]foreverysetofvariablesthatcorre- spondtheanassignmentofthesameproductfor the same source in analogy to the mixer choice. Wstatescanbepreparedwithlogarithmiccom- plexity [13]. The state for all ancilla variables is prepared in the usual way with a Hadamard gate. •Schedule: Motivatedbyrecentfindings[40],we make use of a fixed linear ramp QAOA proto- col, for which the QAOA parameters [16], typ- ically calledγandβ, are set to fixed values. This means that no additional classical opti- 9 mizationloopisnecessarytotunetheseparam- eters, which greatly reduces the required quan- tum hardware access time. Specifically, for a depthp≥2, we choose constant cost param- etersγi= (i−1)/(p−1)and constant mixer parametersβ i= 1−γifori∈[2,p]. For the special casep= 1, we defineγ 1=β1=1 2. This setup requiresnqubits to solve a QUBO with nbinary variables. The only hyperparameter is the depthp∈N. Asthesizeofourproblemformulation, Eq. (11), is too large to be solved with the quantum hardware available to us, we apply QAOA only on sub-problems. While QAOA is genuinely a hybrid quantum-classical algorithm, the choice of fixed pa- rametersreduceourvarianttoapurequantumalgo- rithm. 5.1.5 Iterative Belief Propagation (IBP) Belief propagation (BP) is an algorithm which ap- proximately samples from a high dimensional dis- crete probability distribution when the probability functioncanbeexpressedasaproductoffactorsthat involve a small subset of the variables [10, 43]. If the graph that connects factors and variables (called the factorgraph)formsatree,BPisknowtoconvergeex- actly in polynomial time. In the context of QUBOs, the probability distribution we would like to sam- ple from is the Boltzmann distribution for a given inverse temperatureβ, defined asP(x)∝e−βQ(x) whereQ(x)is the QUBO cost function of the form of Eq. (11b). BecauseQ(x)is a linear combination of terms involving edges in the QUBO graph these edges will then become factors in the graph used by BP. Thus, if we have a QUBO with tree connectivity, BPprovidesapolynomialtimealgorithmforfinding the ground state (by settingβto a very large value). BP can be outlined as follows. Consider a QUBO in quadratic form, Eq. (12), withN xvariablesxand a corresponding matrixQ. For each ordered pair of variablesi,j∈{1,...,N x}such thatQ ij̸= 0, BP stores two “messages”µa ij∈[0,1]witha∈{0,1}. These messages are typically initialized randomly andupdatediterativelyaccordingtotheclassicalbe- lief propagation equations [38]: µa ij→(µa ij)∗ ∑ b∈{0,1}(µb ij)∗(14a) with (µa ij)∗:=∏ k∈N(i) k̸=j ∑ b∈{0,1}e−βQ ikab∏ l∈N(k) l̸=jµb lk .(14b)The setN(i)refers to all of the connected QUBO variables (which can includeiitself). Once the mes- sages have converged, they can be used to compute marginalprobabilitieswhichallowustosamplefrom the desired (Boltzmann) distribution. Ontheotherhand,SimulatedAnnealing(SA)pro- vides a different approach for sampling from the Boltzmann distribution of a QUBO [27]. In SA, the current solutionxis iteratively updated by choos- ingarandomvariableandthenflippingitaccording to the Metropolis Hastings criterion. This can also beinterpretedaschoosingarandomsub-problemof thefullproblem(ofjustonevariableinthiscase)and sampling from the Boltzmann distribution of that sub-problem while keeping all other variables fixed. Unlike BP, SA has the useful property that it works for any QUBO connectivity given enough iterations, however in some cases convergence time can be ex- ponential in the problem size. The proposed IBP procedure attempts to bridge the gap between BP and SA as follows [44]. Given a QUBO graph with sparse connectivity, it is possible to choose a subset of variables such that the sub- graph formed by them is a tree. If the given QUBO graphissparseandmoretree-like,thesesub-graphs will be larger, whereas if the graph has full connec- tivity these subgraphs will have size 2 at most. IBP worksbyrandomlychoosingoneofthesesubgraphs (which can be done efficiently) and applying BP on it. This allows us to sample from the Boltzmann distribution for a subset of variables similar to SA. However,unlikeSA,manyvariableswillbeupdated at once. Iteratively choosing these sub-trees and up- datingxusingBPwillallowustoconstructaMarkov chainwhichconvergestotheBoltzmanndistribution asdesired. AconvenientpropertyofIBPisthatinthe limitingcaseofaQUBOthatisalreadyatree,theal- gorithmwillbeidenticaltoregularBP,andthuscon- vergeinpolynomialtime(giventhehyper-parameter βischosencorrectly). Ontheotherhand,iftheprob- lem is fully connected, IBP will reduce to a slightly modified version of SA in which two variables are updated at once instead of one. Similar to SA, IBP is parameterized by the hyper-parameterβwhich can beannealedforbetterperformance. Manyproblems of industrial and academic interest lie somewhere in-between these two extremes thus it is reasonable to postulate that IBP can outperform both BP and SA in some practically relevant cases. In particular, since the optimization problem studied in this work has an inherent tree structure to it from the PBS, it is reasonable that IBP may provide some improve- ment in solution speed and accuracy by exploiting this structure. 10 5.1.6 Chaotic Amplitude Control with Momen- tum (CACm) The CACm algorithm belongs to the class of Ising solvers based on Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) [33, 31]. It has been shown to perform com- petitively against other state-of-the-art solvers such as SA and Parallel Tempering (PT) [31, 45, 32], but its performance strongly depends on the choice of its hyperparameters [45]. Presuming an Ising opti- mization problems of the form of Eq. (13), CACm is based on the concept of relaxing the binary space of s∈{−1,1}Nxtotherealspacem∈RNx,whichleads to a relaxed problem of the formmin mH(m). The operatorF1, which represents the flow map ofthedeterministictrajectoryofCACm,isdefinedas follows [32]: γd2u dt2+du dt=−λu−βe◦∇ mV,(15a) de dt=−ξ(m◦m−a)◦e,(15b) wherethesymbol◦denotestheHadamardproduct, ∇mVthe gradient ofVwith respect to the vector m,βa positive parameter andea vector of positive auxiliary variables. The variableuis a real-valued vector representing the internal state of the CACm andtthecontinuous time. The termproportional to γrepresent the momentum which has been utilized for non-convex optimization [26]. In practice, the operatorF1usedthebileveloptimizationschemefor the contribution of CACm represents the map given asF1:sn:= sign[m(t= 0)]→s n+1:= sign[m(t= T)]. In the current work, the potentialVis equal to the Ising Hamiltonian of the modelH, Eq. (13b), relaxed to the continuous domain. The vector θ:= (λ 1,λ2,γ,β,ξ,a,T)contains the hyperparam- eters, which are briefly explained in the following. First of all,λ 1andλ 2are the initial and final val- ues of the parameterλthat is taken to be a linear function of time to perform “annealing.”. Further- more,γrepresents the momentum andβa positive parameter. We setm i:=ϕ( ˜βui),∀i∈{1,···,N x}, whereϕ(m) :=2 1+e−m−1is a sigmoidal function normalized to the domainm∈[−1,1]. Moreover,ξ representsthespeedoftheerrorcorrectiondynamics andarepresentstargetamplitudeofthemvariables. Finally,Tdenotesthenumberofstepsofasinglerun of CACm.5.1.7 Dynamic Anisotropic Smoothing (DAS) DASisarecentlyproposedderivative-freeoptimiza- tion approach for automated hyperparameter tun- ing. Presume that an algorithm has a hyperparame- ter spaceθ. DAS involves iteratively sampling a set of solutionsL[θ] :={θ 1,θ2,···,θR}, using the Ising solverstoinferanoptimalvalueofθ. Thisisachieved by iterating the following equations [45]: dL dt=αL( LL⊤∂h(L,θ) ∂L+λL+η L) ,(16a) dθ dt=αθ( LL⊤∂h(L,θ) ∂θ+ηθ) ,(16b) The variablesθandLrepresent a distribution in the hyper-parameter space in which the trajectories are sampledfrom,wherethevectorθandmatrixLcorre- spondtothecenterandcovarianceofthedistribution respectively.Ris the number of hyperparameters sampled per step of DAS. Equations (16b) and (16b) describe the gradient descent dynamics of the opti- malparameterestimateθ,aswellastheestimationof thelocalcurvatureLofthealgorithm’sperformance in the hyperparameter space atθ. The functionh andthehyperparameterλaredescribedinmorede- tail in [45]. In each stepnof DAS, an ensemble of parameters L[θγ]is updated conditionally on set of solutionSγ n found by the Ising solver as follows: L[θγ n+1] =G(L[θγ n];Sγ n).(17) In DAS, the operatorGestimates the gradient and localcurvatureofC n(thatis,DASisanapproximate second order method). 5.2 Informed Quantum-Enhanced Tree Solver (IQTS) Our first hybrid quantum-classical solver focuses on knowledge about the problem structure and how it can be used to decompose the problem into smaller sub-problems, which can then be tackled using quantum optimization. Since the decomposition approach is centered around the tree structure of the PBS, we call this approach Informed Quantum- Enhanced Tree Solver (IQTS). The method is largely I/O-bound and can achieve a very fast convergence by keeping the exploration close to the feasible do- main. The task of the solver is to provide a heuristic so- lution to the proposed QUBO, Eq. (11). Given a user-defined subtree sizemand variable countn, 11 the solver workflow can be summarized in the fol- lowing way, where we recall the solver components from Section 5.1: 1. Start with a candidate solutionxfrom ISG. 2. Randomly select a parti∈Ifrom the PBS that hasnotyetbeenselected,alwayspreferthepart with the highest available level. 3. For each parti, perform the following steps: a. Randomly select a sub-tree of sizemfrom the PBS that contains parti. b. Randomlyselectnvariablesfortheassign- ment of parts, which are contained in the sub-tree. Setallremainingvariablestozero inordertonullifytheproductassignments. c. Buildasub-problemfromtheselectedvari- ables and solve it with QAOA. Due to the selection of the sub-problem based on a sub-tree of the PBS, the sub-problem vari- ables are highly correlated. d. If necessary, repairxusing ISF. This step can lead to an update ofx. e. Perform a predefined number of ISI itera- tions. This step can lead to an update of x. 4. If all parts have been randomly selected once in step 2, make all of them freely available again. 5. Repeatfromstep2untilκrepetitionshavebeen reached, then returnx. 5.3 Hybrid Quantum-Classical Bilevel Solver (HBS) Thesecondsolverweproposeisahighperformance framework that leverages multiple sub-solvers in a collaborative way, which allows us to make use of a combinationofclassical,quantum-inspiredandpure quantumoptimizers. TheframeworkismostlyCPU- boundandfocusedoncomputationalefficiency,scal- ability, and generalizability for tackling complex models with bilevel optimization. We call this approach Hybrid Quantum-Classical Bilevel Solver (HBS). Specifically,thetaskofHBSistoprovideaheuristic solutiontoanIsingoptimizationproblemoftheform of Eq. (13). We outline the framework in the follow- ing,wherewerecallthecomponentsfromSection5.1. First of all, HBS makes use of three specialized Ising solvers: •CACm [32, 33], as a general-purpose, state-of- the-art quantum-inspired method, •IBP [44], as an iterative message-passing tech- nique, designed to quickly approximate solu- tionsforproblemswithatree-likestructure,and•QAOA [17, 38] to include the exploitation of quantum effects. Eachsolverleveragesdifferentpropertiesoftheprob- lem instances, and together, they maximize the ad- vantages of each approach. We denote the solvers byAlgγwithγ∈{CACm, IBP, QAOA}. In addition, HBS also uses ISG to generate solution candidates, ISF to improve the feasibility of solution candidates andDAStotunehyperparameters. Algorithm1pro- vides a summary of the framework. Algorithm 1Hybrid Quantum-Classical Bilevel Solver 1:Input:Isingproblem,Eq.(13),withIsingHamil- tonianH(s) 2:Initializes 0∈S0using ISG 3:whilenot convergeddo 4:forγ∈{CACm, IBP, QAOA}do 5:Refine solution:s n+1=Fγ(sn,θγ n) 6:Generate candidate set:Sγ n+1 7:end for 8:Combine solutions:S n+1=S[⋃ γSγ n+1] 9:Tune:θ∗ n+1≈arg min θu(H∗−H(sn))viaDAS step 10:given asL n+1[θ] =G(L n[θ];Sn) 11:Fix solutionss n+1∈Sn+1using ISF 12:Recordcandidate solutionsS n+1 13:end while Initially, ISG is used to generate a candidate solu- tions 0∈S0⊂{−1,1}Nx, whereS 0denotes the fea- siblesetofstatesgeneratedbyISG.Then,asequence ofiterationsn≥1follows,duringwhichthesolution candidate is progressively refined until convergence isreached—thatis,whenfurtheriterationsnolonger improve the solution quality. The task of each algo- rithmAlgγistorefineasolutionfromaninitialguess sn∈Snto an improved solutions n+1∈Sγ n+1, en- suringH(s n+1)≤H(sn). Formally, this action is represented as a operatorFγgiven as follows: sn+1:=Fγ(sn,θγ n),∀sn∈Sn,∀γ,(18) whereθγ ndenotesthehyperparametersofsolverγat stepn. InthecaseofCACmforexample,theoperator FCACmconsists in the flow map of a deterministic trajectory represented by an ODE as described in Section 5.1.6. The solutions found by all algorithms are then re- combined to be the starting point for the next iter- ations, which involves sampling the subset of best solutionsfoundamongtheunionsetofallsolutions, 12 as follows: Sn:=S[⋃ γSγ n] ,(19) whereSis a sampling operation selecting with uniform distribution from candidate solutions with smallest Ising HamiltonianH(s n+1). We then adopt a bilevel optimization approach, where the parametersθγ nare adaptively tuned to maximize the quality of the solution found. Specifi- cally, we seek θγ∗ n:= arg min θCγ n(θ),(20) where Cγ n(θ) :=u(H∗−H(Fγ(sn−1,θ)))(21) is a cost associated with the solution quality found after one step of the Ising solver and based on the the Heaviside step functionu. The reference energy H∗is defined as the minimum objective of Eq. (13) found so far. Since the functional dependency of Cγ n(θ)onthehyperparametersθisnotknownapriori, we optimizeθusing an estimation ofthe gradient of Cγ nbasedonDAS.Inpractice,thetwolevelsdescribed inEqs.(17)and(18)areiteratedoneaftertheotheras depictedinFig.3. Toensurefeasibility,ISFisapplied onallsolutioncandidatess n∈Snattheendofeach iteration (which are first transformed back into the QUBO domain). Sn {Sγ n} Sn+1 L(θn) L(θn+1){Fγ}⋃ GIsing solvers (CACm, IBP, QAOA) Merge Hyperparameters online tuning (DAS) Figure 3: Sketch of how HBS combines Ising solvers (CACm, IBP, and QAOA) with hyperparameter tun- ing (DAS). The current implementation of HBS does not uti- lize ISI, but it could be included in future imple- mentations. Similarly, the Lagrangian multipliersλ have been considerd as constants, but could in prin- ciplealsobeincludedwithinthelistofhyperparam- eters tuned automatically by DAS. Penalty terms as- sociated with box constraints are currently not in- cluded in the Ising Hamiltonian utilized by HBS. While we tailor HBS towards its best performanceforthepresentusecase,itcan,unlikeIQTS,beeasily beadaptedtobeapplicabletoanyQUBO.Anexem- plary demonstration of the convergence behavior of HBS is provided in Section D. 6 Experiments In this section, we describe our numerical experi- ments. We use the IonQ deviceAria-1[22] to ex- ecute quantum circuits, which is based on trapped ion technology and operates on25qubits with all- to-all connectivity. We access the system via AWS Braket. We also conduct quantum simulations, for which we use the (noiseless) AWS Braket universal statevectorsimulatorSV1. Intotal,weperformfour types of experiments: E1. IQTSfordifferentscalarizationweightsusing QAOA onAria-1. E2. IQTSforthesamescalarizationweightsasin experiment E1 using SA. E3. IQTSfordifferentscalarizationweightsusing QAOA onSV1. E4. HBSfordifferentscalarizationweightsusing CACm. E5. HBSfordifferentscalarizationweightsusing IBP, CACm, and QAOA onSV1. E6. IQTS for different primary source shares us- ing QAOA onSV1. A summary of all experiments is listed in Table 1. Detailed settings are provided in Section E. Table 1: Experiment summary: solver, number of instances and resulting objective hypervolume over all instances. The hypervolume is calculated with respect to the reference point(3,5,4.5,5.5)for the four weighted KPIs in Eq. (11). Experiment Solver Instances Hypervolume Experiment E1 IQTS8 55.20 Experiment E2 IQTS8 54.44 Experiment E3 IQTS286 73.05 Experiment E4 HBS206 58.74 Experiment E5 HBS156 63.90 Experiment E6 IQTS20 53.85 We particularly choose primary source shares of α:=αi:= 0.8for alli∈Iin experiments E1 to E5, whichisasuitablevalueforreal-worldapplications. In experiment E6, on the other hand we randomly sample values forα∈[.5,.8]. Based on these spec- ifications, we end up withN z:= 494ancilla vari- ables, leading to a total ofN x:=Ny+Nz= 2416 13 variables in experiments E1 to E5 (while the num- ber of variables for experiment E6 depends on the sampled value ofα, which may affect the number of ancilla variables). This number can be compared to the number of variables a naive approach to the as- signmentproblemtogetafeelingforthecomplexity reductionweachievedwithourmodelingapproach. If we take into account all48parts,43manufactur- ing sites, and29suppliers of the problem instance, we arrive at around(43×29)48×2≈10300possi- ble assignments, when taking double sourcing into account. In addition, the instance includes28ware- houses and17 073transportation methods between sitesandwarehouses,resultinginalargenumberof possible routes to which the products must also be properly assigned. Our model captures the entire problem with only2416binary variables. In the following, we first we present the results from experiment E1, which we subsequently com- pare with the results from experiment E2. Next, we show the resulting solution space exploration from experimentsE3toE5. Finally,weprovidetheresults from experiment E6. 6.1 Experiment E1 on Aria-1 ThesolutionsfromexperimentE1areshowninFig.4 as pairwise projections within the four-dimensional KPIspace. Eachsolutionisfeasible(i.e.,itfulfillsthe constraints)andhasbeenobtainedbychoosingadif- ferentsetofscalarizationweightsandrunningIQTS. The reported KPIs for each solution are to be un- derstood as the non-scalarized expressionsC nfrom Eq. (5), which we refer to as costs (n= 1), emissions (n= 2), time (n= 3), and workshare (n= 4). For each two-dimensional projection, we highlight both the overall Pareto-optimal solutions as well as the solutions that are Pareto-optimal with respect to the projectedplane(i.e.,ignoringtheotherdimensions). We also mark two Pareto-optimal example solu- tions, A and B, which are visualized in Fig. 5. Each visualization shows Below the map, two plots show theworksharefortheindividualsitesandsuppliers, respectively, together with the required upper and lower bounds (triangles), which are fulfilled. For the suppliers, we also show the target workshares (crosses),whichhavetobereachedascloseaspossi- ble. In Fig. 5a and Fig. 5b, we show an abstract map with production sites (dots) and warehouses (squares)inthestyleofFig.1b. Theconnectinglines show the streams of goods: the line thickness indi- cates the cumulative costs value of the transported parts(abiggerlinemeansmoreexpensive),whereas 1.5 1.6 1.71.71.81.9A B emissionscostsSolution Pareto-optimal Optimal in Projection 1.71.81.91.522.53 AB coststime 1.5 1.6 1.712345 AB emissionsworkshare 1.71.81.912345 AB costsworkshare 1.5 1.6 1.71.522.53 AB emissionstime 1.522.5312345 AB timeworkshareFigure 4: Solutions from experiment E1, shown as pairwiseprojectionsofthefourKPIs. Pareto-optimal solutionsarehighlighted. Wemarktwosolutions,A and B, which are visualized in Fig. 5. Each solution represents a supply chain configuration. the redness indicates the contribution of this con- nection to the overall carbon dioxide emission (the redder, the more emissions). In Fig. 5c and Fig. 5d, weshowtheworksharefulfillmentsforthesitesand suppliers. Thesitesandsuppliersarearebothshown on the same horizontal axis, where each supplier is marked (triangle). Also shown are the required up- perandlowerlimits,whichareallrespectedbytheef- fectiveworksharesfromthesolutions(thehorizontal orderofsitesandsuppliersiswithascendingfeasible window size). For the suppliers, we also show the target workshares (crosses), which are to be reached as close as possible. Thevisualizationsdemonstratethecomplexitybe- hindeachindividualsolutionandcouldinanextstep be used to select between different competing sup- plychainconfigurationsthatfocusondifferentKPIs. For example, the solution A fulfills the supplier tar- getworksharesmuchbetterthansolutionsolutionB at a cost of a much higher carbon dioxide emission. In Fig. 6, we present the iterative convergence of 14 production sites warehouses lowhighemissions costs(a) Solution A: Routes with emissions and costs production sites warehouses lowhighemissions costs (b) Solution B: Routes with emissions and costs effective workshare workshare limits workshare target supplier workshare (c) Solution A: Workshare fulfillments effective workshare workshare limits workshare target supplier workshare (d) Solution B: Workshare fulfillments Figure 5: Visualization of two Pareto-optimal solutions from experiment E1, which we call solution A and solutionB.In(a)and(b),weshowroutesbetweenproductionsitesandwarehouses,thethicknessandcolor indicate cumulative costs and emissions, respectively. In (c) and (d), we show workshare fulfillments for sitesandsuppliers(bothonthesamehorizontalaxis,suppliersaremarked). TheKPIsofthetwosolutions are shown in Fig. 4. IQTS for one instance from experiment E1 (which leadstosolutionA).Here,Q(x)standsfortheobjec- tive from Eq. (11), which is chosen as the weighted mean of the four KPIs from Eq. (32): carbon diox- ide emissions (C 1(y)), costs (C 2(y)), time (C 3(y)), and supplier workshare target fulfillment (C 4(y)). It turns out that after50iterations, convergence is al- mostreached,whichiswhyweusethisasthemaxi- mum iteration count for experiment E6. 6.2 Experiment E2 with SA The quantum device we use is capable of solving sub-problems involving up to25optimization vari- ables using the proposed QAOA approach. QUBOs of this size can also be solved relatively easy with a brute-force methods. Therefore, no concrete ad- vantage is expected from applying a quantum opti- 0 20 40 60 80 10023 iterationQ(x) C1(y) C2(y) C3(y) C4(y)Figure 6: Convergence of IQTS for one instance within experiment E1 using QAOA onAria-1. mization strategy to such small instances. However, solving sub-problems to optimality does not neces- sarilyyieldthebestoverallperformance. Infact,sub- optimal solutions to individual sub-problems may contributetoabetteroveralloutcome. Consequently, theinherentimperfectionsofthequantumoptimiza- 15 1.51.61.71.61.82 (0,1,0,0) (0.4,0.6,0,0)(0.25,0.25,0.25,0.25) emissionscostsE1: IQTS (LR-QAOA on Aria-1 )E2: IQTS (SA) 1.6 1.8 21.522.533.5 (0,1,0,0) (0.25,0.25,0.25,0.25) coststime 1.51.61.712345 (0,1,0,0)(0.5,0.5,0,0) (0.25,0.25,0.25,0.25) emissionsworkshare 1.6 1.8 212345 (0,1,0,0)(0.4,0.6,0,0) (0.25,0.25,0.25,0.25) costsworkshare 1.51.61.71.522.533.5 (0,1,0,0) (0.4,0.6,0,0) (0.3,0.7,0,0) emissionstime 1.522.533.512345 (0.3,0.7,0,0) (1,0,0,0) (0.25,0.25,0.25,0.25) timeworkshareFigure 7: Comparison of the solutions from experi- mentsE1andE2. Solutionpairsfrominstanceswith thesamescalarizationweightswareconnectedwith a line. Hence, each line shows the KPI shifts from using IQTS with QAOA against IQTS with SA. For some solution pairs, the corresponding choice ofw is shown. tionprocessmayprovebeneficialtotheperformance of IQTS. InexperimentE2,wereplaceQAOAasasub-solver with SA to test if any performance difference can be observed. We use the same scalarization weights for the8instances as in experiment E1. A direct comparison of the results is shown in 7, where we particularlyhighlighttheKPIshiftsofsolutionswith the same scalarization weights. ThereoccursignificantKPIshifts,whichisnosur- prise as the feasible solution space is very complex and many compromises may lead to similar over- all objectives. We observe that the overall solution space exploration is very similar for experiments E1 and E3. In Table 1, we evaluate the hypervolume of thesolutionswithrespecttoareferencepoint(Nadir point). Thehypervolumeservesasanindicatorofthe Paretofrontierexpansion,withhighervaluesreflect- ingabetterperformance. Wefindahypervolumeof55.20forexperimentE1and54.44forexperimentE2, indicating a comparable Pareto frontier expansion. This quantitative result aligns with the qualitative observations presented in Fig. 7. In summary, no significant difference between us- ing QAOA or SA in IQTS can be observed, as ex- pected. However, it should be emphasized that we only consider8instances per experiment here. A study with more data might be necessary to statis- tically validate these observations and draw more robust conclusions. 6.3 Feasible Solution Space from E3, E4, and E5 Tovisualizethesolutionspaceexplorationforexper- iments E3 to E5, we show the combined results as projections on the KPIs in Fig. 8 in analogy to Fig. 4. We also include the results from experiment E1 as a reference. All presented solutions are feasible. For the sake of clarity, we do not explicitly indicate the Parto optimality of individual solutions here. These results are provided in Section F. Weobservethatallofourapproachesleadtocom- parable solution space exploration with only minor difference. From Table 1 we find that the hypervol- ume of experiment E3 is largest with73.05followed byexperimentE5with63.90andexperimentE4with 58.74. However, with286instances, experiment E3 also includes more solutions than experiment E4 with206instances and experiment E5 with only156 instances. Overall,weconcludethattheperformance of all considered approaches is competitive. As in our previous observations, usingAria-1in experi- ment E1 does not yield a significant computational advantage over the classical algorithms. It is evident that most objectives are in conflict with one another, such as costs-time, emissions- workshare, costs-workshare, emissions-time, and time-workshare. In contrast, emissions and costs are hardly conflicting. This observation suggests thatoptimizedsupplychainscanbeenvironmentally friendly and cost-effective at the same time. 6.4 Source Share Variation from E6 In contrast to the previous experiments, the goal of experiment E6 is to explore the effect of different values of the primary source shareα(for constant, balanced scalarization weightsw). WepresenttheresultingsolutionsinFig.9forone pair of KPIs, the other projections are shown in Sec- tionF.Thecolorsofthedotsindicatethecorrespond- ingchoiceofα,groupedintofivedistinctclusters,as 16 1.5 2 2.52345 emissionscostsE1: IQTS (LR-QAOA on Aria-1 ) E3: IQTS (LR-QAOA on SV1) E4: HBF (CACm) E5: HBF (IBP, CACm, LR-QAOA on SV1) 2 3 4 51234 coststime 1.5 2 2.524 emissionsworkshare 2 3 4 524 costsworkshare 1.5 2 2.51234 emissionstime 123424 timeworkshareFigure 8: Explored solution space for different solvers. Eachsolutionrepresentsasupplychaincon- figuration. Data from experiments E1 and E3 to E5. defined in the colorbar. The marks on the colorbar indicatethesampledvaluesofα,eachofwhichleads to a problem instance to be solved. Asexpected,differentchoicesofαleadtoadistri- bution of solutions. While there is no clear distinc- tion,highervaluesofαhaveaslighttendencytolead to solutions with higher emissions and lower work- share(andvice-versa). Thisalignswiththeintuitive understanding that higher values ofαtogether with the workshare constraints reduce the flexibility of choosing emission-efficient routes. 7 Conclusions We address a multi-objective logistics optimization problem inspired by a real-world supply chain sce- nario. To model the assignment problem in a form suitable for quantum optimization, we first formu- late a QUBO. By preprocessing the instance data 1.6 1.7 1.81.52 emissionsworkshare 0.50.60.70.8 α▶ ▶ ▶ ▶▶▶ ▶ ▶▶ ▶▶ ▶▶▶ ▶▶ ▶▶ ▶ ▶Figure 9: Solutions for different primary source sharesα. Data from experiment E6. through pathfinding and feasibility exploration, we substantially reduce the solution space that must be searched. Building on this foundation, we propose two hybrid quantum-classical solvers to tackle the optimization problem effectively: The knowledge- based IQTS and the high-performance approach HBS.Bothapproachesleveragespecial-purposesys- temstosolvesub-problemsofscalablesize,enabling the use of Ising machines, NISQ devices, and poten- tially more efficient quantum or non-classical plat- forms in the future. We demonstrate experimentally that the two heuristic solvers are able to find solutions of com- parable quality. Both have their own strengths and weaknesses. IQTS is highly efficient in finding fea- sible solutions and its focus on the exploration of the solution space close to the feasible domain typ- ically leads to a very fast convergence behavior. Its weakness, on the other hand, is that it cannot be di- rectlyparallelizedinitscurrentdesign. Thestrength of HBS is its flexibility in combining multiple sub- solvers within a bilevel framework, which ensures scalability and generalization. A weakness of the method is that its adaptability to a general problem settingcomesatthecostofslowerconvergencetoan optimal solution. In the course of our experiments, however, the two solvers demonstrate similar solu- tion quality, suggesting that these weaknesses were minor in practice. Our experimental results do not indicate any per- formance advantage from using theAria-1quantum hardware within the proposed solver frameworks. We attribute this primarily to the small scale of the device of only 25 qubits, which cannot be expected to be competitive to classical computations [14, 49]. Nevertheless,thedesignofoursolverframeworksal- lows for straightforward adaptation to more power- fulquantumhardwareinthefuture,wherequantum optimization may lead to meaningful performance 17 gains. There are numerous opportunities to extend and generalize our modeling approach from multiple perspectives. One important aspect would be the packingproblemofplacingmultiplepartswithinthe limitedcontainerspaceoftransportvehiclesbasedon the geometries. Additional elements could also be takenintoaccount,suchasproductiontimes,precise transportation scheduling, manufacturing capaci- ties, warehouse capacities, and additional regional restrictions related to transportation and regulatory compliance. Some of these elements, such as pro- ductiontimes,couldbeeasilyintegratedintoourex- isting formalism. Others, such as the packing prob- lem, would lead to entirely new sub-problems that couldbeintegratedasafutureextensions. Lastly,the primarysourceshare,whichwetreatedaninstance- dependentexample,couldalsobetakenintoaccount asanadditionaloptimizationparameter. Possibly,in combination with another KPI, which measures the resilience of the supply chain. In the current work, we have not combined all elements of IQTS and HBS, as integrating calls to the quantum hardware with parallel CPU process- ing is non-trivial in the current setup. However, this integration could be achieved with improved inter- facing. HBS can be extended to include a broader set of special-purpose algorithms, either classical, quantum-inspired or quantum. Incorporating state- of-the-artalgorithmsintothesolvermixensuresthat themethodachievesoptimalperformanceatpresent. Asquantumhardwarescalestoincludemorequbits, it becomes possible to allocate an increasing portion of the solver mix to quantum algorithms. In the meantime, the hybrid approach facilitates the effi- cient utilization of these schemes. Moreover, HBS can be improved by incorporating more sophisti- catedmethodsformergingcandidatesolutionsfrom solvers(suchasmutationrules)andbyexploringal- ternativeparametertuningtechniques,likeBayesian optimization, where applicable. For classical hard- ware,thisstudyhasprimarilyfocusedonCPU-based parallel computing, as the sparsity of the problem’s connectivitymadeCPUsasuitablechoice. However, algorithmssuchasCACmandIBPcouldbenefitfrom GPU acceleration in cases of denser connectivity. Another potential non-classical platform for Ising machines, specifically of the CACm type, is the Co- herent Ising Machine (CIM). The CIM is a nonlinear optical system that leverages optical parametric am- plificationwhichcanbeimplementedonthelithium niobate platform [20, 35, 37, 21]. A next-generation CIMshouldbeimplementedasaThinFilmLithium Niobate (TFLN) photonic integrated circuit. Severalkey components toward this goal have successfully developedsuchasopticalparametricamplifiers[24], optical frequency converters [25] and optical para- metric oscillators [36]. 8 Acknowledgments The authors acknowledge Airbus and BMW Group forprovidingtheproblemstatementsundertheAir- bus–BMW Group Quantum Computing Challenge 2024andforsupportingthevalidationoftheresults. We also extend our appreciation to the teams at Air- bus,Amazon,andIonQfortheirinvaluableguidance inclarifyingtheusecaseandforprovidingaccessto IonQ’s computing resources via AWS. Their readi- ness to address our questions throughout the de- velopment process was especially appreciated. We wouldliketogivespecialthanks(inalphabeticalor- der) to Andreas Mitschke (Airbus), Andreas Zindel (Airbus), Denny Dahl (IonQ), Heidi Nelson-Quillin (IonQ), Howard Lock (IonQ), Martin Schuetz (Ama- zon), Michael Brett (Amazon), Richard Ashworth (Airbus), and Sebastian Stern (Amazon). Further- more, we express our sincere gratitude to Marwan Channab, Raymond Harding, and Matteo Conterno for their active participation in discussions and the exchange of ideas. References [1] Amira Abbas, Andris Ambainis, Brandon Au- gustino, et al. “Challenges and opportunities in quantum optimization”. In:Nature Reviews Physics6.12(Dec.2024),pp.718–735.issn:2522- 5820.doi:10.1038/s42254-024-00770-9.url: https://doi.org/10.1038/s42254- 024- 00770-9. [2] Airbus and BMW Group.The Quantum Mobil- ity Quest.https://qcc.thequantuminsider. com. Accessed: 2025-05-20. 2024. [3] David Amaro, Matthias Rosenkranz, Nathan Fitzpatrick,KojiHirano,andMattiaFiorentini. “A case study of variational quantum algo- rithmsforajobshopschedulingproblem”.In: EPJ Quantum Technology9.1 (2022), p. 5. [4] Mayowa Ayodele, Richard Allmendinger, Manuel López-Ibáñez, and Matthieu Parizy. “A Study of Scalarisation Techniques for Multi-objective QUBO Solving”. In:Opera- tions Research Proceedings 2022. Springer Inter- national Publishing, 2023, pp. 393–399.isbn: 9783031249075.doi:10 . 1007 / 978 - 3 - 031 - 18 24907-5\_47.url:http://dx.doi.org/10. 1007/978-3-031-24907-5%5C_47. [5] Mayowa Ayodele, Richard Allmendinger, Manuel López-Ibáñez, and Matthieu Parizy. “Multi-objective QUBO solver: bi-objective quadratic assignment problem”. In:Proceed- ings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computa- tion Conference. GECCO ’22. ACM, July 2022, pp. 467–475.doi:10.1145/3512290.3528698. url:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3512290. 3528698. [6] Ryan Babbush, Bryan O’Gorman, and Alán Aspuru-Guzik.“Resourceefficientgadgetsfor compiling adiabatic quantum optimization problems”. In:Annalen der Physik525.10–11 (Sept. 2013), pp. 877–888.issn: 1521-3889.doi: 10.1002/andp.201300120.url:http://dx. doi.org/10.1002/andp.201300120. [7] Ana Paula Barbosa-Póvoa, Cátia da Silva, and Ana Carvalho. “Opportunities and challenges in sustainable supply chain: An operations re- searchperspective”.In:EuropeanJournalofOp- erationalResearch268.2(2018),pp.399–431.issn: 0377-2217.doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/ j . ejor . 2017 . 10 . 036.url:https : / / www . sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ S0377221717309499. [8] Ville Bergholm, Josh Izaac, Maria Schuld, et al.PennyLane: Automatic differentiation of hy- bridquantum-classicalcomputations.2022.arXiv: 1811 . 04968 [quant-ph].url:https : / / arxiv.org/abs/1811.04968. [9] Kostas Blekos, Dean Brand, Andrea Ceschini, et al. “A review on Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm and its variants”. In: PhysicsReports1068(June2024),pp.1–66.issn: 0370-1573.doi:10.1016/j.physrep.2024.03. 002.url:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j. physrep.2024.03.002. [10] A. Braunstein, M. Mézard, and R. Zecchina. “Survey propagation: An algorithm for satis- fiability”. In:Random Struct. Algorithms27.2 (Sept. 2005), pp. 201–226.issn: 1042-9832. [11] Jwo-Sy Chen, Erik Nielsen, Matthew Ebert, et al. “Benchmarking a trapped-ion quantum computer with 30 qubits”. In:Quantum8 (2024), p. 1516. [12] Randall Correll, Sean J Weinberg, Fabio Sanches, Takanori Ide, and Takafumi Suzuki. “Quantumneuralnetworksforasupplychain logistics application”. In:Advanced Quantum Technologies6.7 (2023), p. 2200183.[13] Diogo Cruz, Romain Fournier, Fabien Gremion, et al. “Efficient Quantum Al- gorithms for GHZ and W States, and Implementation on the IBM Quantum Computer”. In:Advanced Quantum Tech- nologies2.5–6 (Apr. 2019).issn: 2511-9044. doi:10 . 1002 / qute . 201900015.url:http : //dx.doi.org/10.1002/qute.201900015. [14] Alexander M. Dalzell, Aram W. Harrow, Dax Enshan Koh, and Rolando L. La Placa. “How manyqubitsareneededforquantumcomputa- tionalsupremacy?”In:Quantum4(May2020), p.264.issn:2521-327X.doi:10.22331/q-2020- 05- 11- 264.url:http://dx.doi.org/10. 22331/q-2020-05-11-264. [15] Vinayak V Dixit and Chence Niu. “Quantum computingfortransportnetworkdesignprob- lems”.In:ScientificReports13.1(2023),p.12267. [16] EdwardFarhi,JeffreyGoldstone,andSamGut- mann.AQuantumApproximateOptimizationAl- gorithm. 2014. arXiv:1411.4028 [quant-ph]. url:https://arxiv.org/abs/1411.4028. [17] EdwardFarhi,JeffreyGoldstone,andSamGut- mann.“Aquantumapproximateoptimization algorithm”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:1411.4028 (2014). [18] David Fitzek, Toheed Ghandriz, Leo Laine, MatsGranath,andAntonFriskKockum.“Ap- plying quantum approximate optimization to the heterogeneous vehicle routing problem”. In:Scientific Reports14.1 (2024), p. 25415. [19] Thore Gerlach, Loong Kuan Lee, Frédéric Barbaresco, and Nico Piatkowski. “Hybrid Quantum-ClassicalMulti-AgentPathfinding”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.14568(2025). [20] Toshimori Honjo, Tomohiro Sonobe, Ken- suke Inaba, et al. “100,000-spin coherent Ising machine”. In:Science advances7.40 (2021), eabh0952. [21] Takahiro Inagaki, Kensuke Inaba, Ryan Hamerly,etal.“Large-scaleIsingspinnetwork basedondegenerateopticalparametricoscilla- tors”. In:Nature Photonics10.6 (2016), pp. 415– 419. [22] IonQ.IonQAria.https://ionq.com/quantum- systems/aria. [Accessed 29-10-2024]. 19 [23] Md Abrar Jahin, Md Sakib Hossain Shovon, MdSaifulIslam,etal.“QAmplifyNet:pushing theboundariesofsupplychainbackorderpre- diction using interpretable hybrid quantum- classical neural network”. In:Scientific Reports 13.1 (2023), p. 18246. [24] Marc Jankowski, Nayara Jornod, Carsten Lan- grock, et al. “Quasi-static optical parametric amplification”. In:Optica9.3 (2022), pp. 273– 279. [25] MarcJankowski,CarstenLangrock,BorisDesi- atov,MarkoLončar,andMMFejer.“Supercon- tinuum generation by saturated second-order nonlinear interactions”. In:APL Photonics8.11 (2023). [26] Kirill P Kalinin, George Mourgias-Alexandris, HiteshBallani,etal.“AnalogIterativeMachine (AIM):usinglighttosolvequadraticoptimiza- tionproblemswithmixedvariables”.In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.12594(2023). [27] S. Kirkpatrick, C. D. Gelatt, and M. P. Vecchi. “Optimization by Simulated Annealing”. In: Science220.4598 (May 1983), pp. 671–680.doi: 10.1126/science.220.4598.671. [28] Thorsten Koch, David E. Bernal Neira, Ying Chen, et al.Quantum Optimization Benchmark Library – The Intractable Decathlon. 2025. arXiv: 2504 . 03832 [quant-ph].url:https : / / arxiv.org/abs/2504.03832. [29] KrzysztofKurowski,TomaszPecyna,Mateusz Slysz, et al. “Application of quantum ap- proximate optimization algorithm to job shop scheduling problem”. In:European Journal of Operational Research310.2 (2023), pp. 518–528. [30] Loong Kuan Lee, Thore Thassilo Gerlach, and Nico Piatkowski.Standardization of Multi- Objective QUBOs. 2025. arXiv:2504 . 12419 [cs.LG].url:https://arxiv.org/abs/2504. 12419. [31] Timothée Leleu, Farad Khoyratee, Timothée Levi,etal.“Scalingadvantageofchaoticampli- tudecontrolforhigh-performancecombinato- rial optimization”. In:Communications Physics 4.1 (2021), p. 266. [32] TimothéeLeleuandSamuelReifenstein.“Non- EquilibriumDynamicsofHybridContinuous- Discrete Ground-State Sampling”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22625(2024).[33] Timothée Leleu, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Peter L McMahon, and Kazuyuki Aihara. “Destabi- lizationoflocalminimainanalogspinsystems by correction of amplitude heterogeneity”. In: Physical review letters122.4 (2019), p. 040607. [34] Andrew Lucas. “Ising formulations of many NP problems”. In:Frontiers in PhysicsVolume 2 (2014).issn: 2296-424X.doi:10.3389/fphy. 2014.00005.url:https://www.frontiersin. org/journals/physics/articles/10.3389/ fphy.2014.00005. [35] Alireza Marandi, Zhe Wang, Kenta Takata, RobertLByer,andYoshihisaYamamoto.“Net- work of time-multiplexed optical parametric oscillatorsasacoherentIsingmachine”.In:Na- ture Photonics8.12 (2014), pp. 937–942. [36] Timothy P McKenna, Hubert S Stokowski, Vahid Ansari, et al. “Ultra-low-power second- order nonlinear optics on a chip”. In:Nature Communications13.1 (2022), p. 4532. [37] PeterLMcMahon,AlirezaMarandi,Yoshitaka Haribara, et al. “A fully programmable 100- spincoherentIsingmachinewithall-to-allcon- nections”. In:Science354.6312 (2016), pp. 614– 617. [38] MarcMezardandAndreaMontanari.Informa- tion, physics, and computation. Oxford Univer- sity Press, 2009. [39] NaeimehMohseni,PeterLMcMahon,andTim Byrnes. “Ising machines as hardware solvers of combinatorial optimization problems”. In: Nature Reviews Physics4.6 (2022), pp. 363–379. [40] J.A.Montanez-BarreraandKristelMichielsen. Towards a universal QAOA protocol: Evidence of a scaling advantage in solving some combinatorial optimization problems. 2024. arXiv:2405.09169 [quant-ph].url:https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2405.09169. [41] Chandra Sekhar Mukherjee, Subhamoy Maitra, Vineet Gaurav, and Dibyendu Roy. On Actual Preparation of Dicke State on a Quantum Computer. 2020. arXiv:2007 . 01681 [quant-ph].url:https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2007.01681. [42] Eneko Osaba, Esther Villar-Rodriguez, and AntónAsla.“Solvingareal-worldpackagede- liveryroutingproblemusingquantumanneal- ers”. In:Scientific Reports14.1 (2024), p. 24791. 20 [43] Judea Pearl. “Reverend bayes on inference en- gines:adistributedhierarchicalapproach”.In: ProceedingsoftheSecondAAAIConferenceonAr- tificial Intelligence. AAAI’82. Pittsburgh, Penn- sylvania: AAAI Press, 1982, pp. 133–136. [44] Sam Reifenstein and Timothée Leleu. “It- erative Belief Propagation for Sparse Com- binatorial Optimization”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00135(2024). [45] Sam Reifenstein, Timothee Leleu, and Yoshi- hisa Yamamoto. “Dynamic Anisotropic Smoothing for Noisy Derivative-Free Opti- mization”. In:arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.01731 (2024). [46] Dario De Santis, Salvatore Tirone, Stefano Marmi, and Vittorio Giovannetti.Optimized QUBOformulationmethodsforquantumcomput- ing. 2024. arXiv:2406.07681 [quant-ph].url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07681. [47] Zhihui Wang, Nicholas C. Rubin, Jason M. Dominy, and Eleanor G. Rieffel. “XY mixers: Analyticalandnumericalresultsforthequan- tum alternating operator ansatz”. In:Physical ReviewA101.1(Jan.2020).issn:2469-9934.doi: 10.1103/physreva.101.012320.url:http:// dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.101.012320. [48] Sean J Weinberg, Fabio Sanches, Takanori Ide, Kazumitzu Kamiya, and Randall Correll. “Supplychainlogisticswithquantumandclas- sical annealing algorithms”. In:Scientific Re- ports13.1 (2023), p. 4770. [49] Xiaosi Xu, Simon Benjamin, Jinzhao Sun, Xiao Yuan, and Pan Zhang.A Herculean task: Clas- sical simulation of quantum computers. 2023. arXiv:2302.08880 [quant-ph].url:https: //arxiv.org/abs/2302.08880. Appendix A Preprocessing We consider here Eq. (4) with scalarized objectives∑4 n=1wnCn(y). As described in Section 4.4, we per- form a two-step preprocessing step to remove sub- optimal terminals from the formulation and reduce the overall number of variables. These two prepreo- cessing steps are explained in the following. A.1 Pathfinding So far, we have not specified how to determine the set of all routes from the set of transportation meth- ods, which is necessary to define the terminals foreach site. It is clear that an explicit enumeration of all routes is computationally expensive due to the many combinatorial possibilities. However, it turns out that with our scalarization approach, no explicit representation is necessary because it allows us to reduce the number of routes for each part and each pair of sites to only one, as will be explained in the following. By definition, the first three KPIs, Eq. (5a), con- sist of a sum of non-negative contributions from the transport costs, Eq. (2). Therefore, when omitting the contribution fromC 4(y), the scalarized objective reads ∑ n∈{1,2,3}wnCn(y)(22) =∑ (i,j)∈ϕ (k,t,u)∈F i,a∈A (l,s,v)∈F j,b∈A Ri k⇒l̸=0αa iχi kl(w,t,s)ya i→(k,t.u)yb j→(l,s,v), where χi kl(w,t,s) :=∑ n∈{1,2,3}wn dncin (k,t)⇒(l,s) (23) representsthecontributionoftransportingparti∈I from production sitek∈Kand terminalt∈Ti kto production sitel∈Kand terminals∈Tj l. The end terminalshas in fact no influence on Eq. (23), so that we can also writeχi kl(w,t) :=χi kl(w,t,s). Moreover,Eq.(23)andhenceEq.(22)isindependent of the chosen suppliers. We use w:= (w 1,w2,w3)to denote the first three scalarization weights. The start terminaltrepresents the chosen route r=τi kl(t)∈Ri k⇒l(as a sequence of transportation options)forparti. However,sinceeverypartistobe transported independently, there is in fact a univer- sally optimal route for each partibetween each pair of production sites(k,l), depending on the chosen weightsw, which is formally given by the optimal terminal ˆti kl(w) := arg min t∈Ti kχi kl(w,t).(24) This optimal terminal can in principle be found by enumeratingallpossibleterminalsTi k. Alternatively, findingthebestterminalisequivalenttofindingthe mostcost-efficientpathbetweenkandlonthegraph Gi, where each edgem∈M iis assigned the costs ξi(w,m) :=∑ n∈{1,2,3}wn dncn(m)γin(m)(25) 21 since χi kl(w,t) =∑ m∈τi kl(t)ξi(w,m),(26) wherewerecallEqs.(2)and(23).Ri k⇒l̸=∅,themost cost-efficient path onG icorresponds to a route ˆri kl(w) := arg min r∈Ri k⇒l∑ m∈rξi(w,m)(27) with ˆti kl(w) =τi kl(ˆri kl(w)).(28) ForRi k⇒l=∅,theoptimalterminalissimplytheonly available terminal, Eq. (1). We consider the determination of optimal termi- nals, as described above, as a preprocessing step, which we perform for each choice of weights w. To thisend,Eq.(27)issolvedwithDĳkstra’salgorithm. This pathfinding step eliminates the search for the best terminal (or, equivalently, best route) from the optimization problem and allows us to switch to a new set of of binary variables y, each identifiable by four indices. Specifically, the binary variable ya i→(k,u)∈{0,1}represents the assignment of part i∈Ito the best terminal ˆti kl(w)∈Ti kof sitek(pre- suming that parent partjinIis assigned to produc- tionsitel∈K)andsupplieruwith(k,u)∈f i,where a∈Aindicateseithertheprimaryproduction(a= 1) or the secondary production (a= 2). Furthermore, we write cin k⇒l(w1,w2,w3) :=cin (k,ˆti kl(w))⇒(l,s)(29) for the cumulative contributions of the transporta- tion methods, where we recall the independence from the end terminals.A.2 Feasibility Reduction In addition to the pathfinding, we apply a second preprocessing step in which we refine the feasible solution space. This step is independent of the cho- sen weights and only has to be performed once per probleminstance. Specifically,foreachparti∈I,we consideronlythoseelementsfromthepredefinedset offeasiblesite-suppliercombinationsf ithatcontain sites for which every child ofican be transported to i(as its parent) and, at the same time,ican also be transportedtoitsparent. Giventheseconditions,the resultingreducedsetisgivenbytheself-referencing definition gi:={(k,u)|(k,u)∈f i∧[∀(i′,j)∈ϕ(30) ∧i′=i∃(l,v)∈g j:Ri k⇒l̸=∅] ∧[∀(j,i′)∈ϕ∧i′=i∃(l,v)∈g j :Rj l⇒k̸=∅]}⊆f i and can be straightforwardly determined with a re- cursive search off i. We find that∑ i∈I|gi|= 1922. Sincealloptionsfromf i\giviolateEq.(4a),weonly usethechoicesprovidedbyg iinthefollowing,lead- ing to a total ofN y:= 1922binary variables. Fur- thermore,g ialsoallowsustofixassignmentswitha single feasible option, i.e., ya i→(k,u):= 1for alli∈I with|gi|= 1. However, this approach does not lead to a reduction of variables for the problem instance we consider. A.3 Reduced Model Asaconsequenceofthetwopreprocessingsteps,the reduced model is given by: min y4∑ n=1Cn(w,y) (31) s.t.∑ a,b∈A,u′,v′∈Uµab iδu′uδv′vya i→(k,u)yb j→(l,v) = 0∀(i,j)∈ϕ∀(k,u)∈g i∀(l,v)∈g j∧Ri k⇒l=∅(31a) ∑ (k,u)∈g iya i→(k,u) = 1∀i∈I∀a∈A(31b) (∑ (k′,u)∈g iδk′kya=1 i→(k,u))(∑ (k′,u)∈g iδk′kya=2 i→(k,u)) = 0∀i∈I∀k∈K∧|K i|≥2(31c) (∑ (k,u)∈g iVvkya=1 i→(k,u))(∑ (k,u)∈g iVvkya=2 i→(k,u)) = 0∀i∈I∀v∈V∧|V i|≥2(31d) ∑ i∈I,(k′,u)∈g i,a∈Aδk′kviαa iya i→(k,u)∈[Kmin k,Kmax k]∀k∈K(31e) ∑ i∈I,(k,u′)∈gi,a∈Aδu′uviαa iya i→(k,u)∈[Umin u,Umax u]∀u∈U(31f)22 Here, we use the simplified KPIs Cn(w,y) :=Cn(w1,w2,w3,y)(32a) :=wn dn∑ (i,j)∈ϕ (k,u)∈g i,a∈A (l,v)∈g j,b∈A Ri k⇒l̸=0αa icin k⇒l(w1,w2,w3)ya i→(k,u)yb j→(l,v) forn∈{1,2,3}and C4(w,y) :=C4(w4,y)(32b) :=w4 d4∑ u∈U[∑ i∈I (k,v)∈g i a∈Aδuvviαa iya i→(k,u)−Utarget u]2 , respectively, in analogy to Eqs. (32a) and (32b). Appendix B Box Constraints AsdescribedinSection4.4,theboxconstraintsfrom Eq. (31), Eqs. (31e) and (31f), must first be converted into equality constraints before they can be trans- formed into penalty terms. We describe the proce- dure in the following [6]. Equations (31e) and (31f) can also be written in terms of inequalitiesf( y)≥0using functions of the form f(y) :=∑ i∈I,(k,u)∈g i,a∈Abi (k,u)viαa iya i→(k,u) +ν(33) withcoefficientsbi (k,u)∈{−1,0,1}for(k,u)∈g iand an integerν∈Z. As an initial step, and for reasons that will be- come clear further below, we approximate the real- valuedcoefficients(therelativevaluesandtheglobal primary source shares) by rational numbers. To that end, we define a part-dependent numerators Pi,Pi∈Zfor each parti∈Iand global denom- inatorsR,R∈Z̸=0, which allow us to express the relative value as vi=Pi R+ϵi (34) and the primary source share as αi=Pi R+ϵi,(35) respectively, with error termsϵ i,ϵi∈Rfor alli∈I. Thus, we can write f(y) =f Q(y) +fϵ(y)(36)with a rational-valued part fQ(y) :=fZ(y) RR∈Q(37) and a real-valued part fϵ(y) :=∑ i∈I (k,u)∈g i a∈A[Pi Rϵi+Pi Rϵi+ϵiϵi] ya i→(k,u)∈R. (38) The rational-valued part is based on the integer- valued expression fZ(y) :=∑ i∈I (k,u)∈g i a∈Abi (k,u)PiPiya i→(k,u) +ν∈Z.(39) In the following, we presume that the numerators and denominators are chosen in such a way that fϵ(y)≈0for all y∈{0,1}Ny, hencef(y)≈f Q(y). In the next step, we define the expression gZ(y,z) :=f Z(y)−nz∑ n=12n−1zn∈Z.(40) Here,zn∈{0,1}forn∈{1,...,n z}denote then z ancilla variables withn z:=⌈log2fZ⌉with a con- stantfZ∈Z, which can be freely chosen under the requirement fZ≥1 + max yfZ(y). As a con- sequence,∀ y∈ {0,1}Ny∃z:g Z(y,z) = 0(since fZ(y)∈[0,fZ]) and we can replace the inequal- ity constraintf Q(y)≥0by the equality constraint gZ(y,z) = 0. We use this approach to replace all boxconstraints,Eqs.(31e)and(31f),byequalitycon- straints. By definition, the minimal number of ancilla vari- ables depends on the magnitude of the global de- nominatorsRand Rsuch that smaller values lead to less variables. More ancilla variables make the problem harder to solve. Therefore, the rational ap- proximation in Eqs. (34) and (35) needs to be bal- anced between sufficiently small error terms and a sufficiently small number of ancilla variables. In the following, we omit the dependency on the specific choicesofnumeratorsanddenominatorstosimplify the notation. Additionally, we aggregate all ancilla variables which emerge from the conversion of the boxconstraintsintoasetofbinaryvariables,denoted byz. Wethenrepresentthecombinedvectorof yand zasx:= (y,z). The resulting model only consists of equality con- straints,whichcanthenbetransformedintopenalty terms. 23 Appendix C QUBOspecifications Equation (11b) from Eq. (31) makes use of the fol- lowing notations. The weighted KPIs Cn(wn,y)are provided in Eqs. (32a) and (32b). The penalty terms are defined by P1(y) :=∑ (i,j)∈ϕ (k,u)∈g i,(l,v)∈g j Ri k⇒l=∅(∑ a,b∈A u′,v′∈Uµab i (41a) ×δu′uδv′vya i→(k,u)yb j→(l,v)) , P2(y) :=∑ i∈I,a∈A(∑ (k,u)∈g iya i→(k,u)−1)2 ,(41b) P3(y) :=∑ i∈I,k∈K |Ki|≥2(∑ (k′,u)∈g iδk′kya=1 i→(k,u)) (41c) ×(∑ (k′,u)∈g iδk′kya=2 i→(k,u)) , P4(y) :=∑ i∈I,v∈V |Vi|≥2(∑ (k,u)∈g iVvkya=1 i→(k,u)) (41d) ×(∑ (k,u)∈g iVvkya=2 i→(k,u)) , P5(x) :=P≥ 5(x) +P≤ 5(x),(41e) P6(x) :=P≥ 6(x) +P≤ 6(x)(41f) based on the abbreviations P≥ 5(x) :=∑ k∈K2−n(5,≥) k( p5(y)−Kmin kRR(42a) −n(5,≥) k∑ n=12n−1z(5,≥) kn)2 , P≤ 5(x) :=∑ k∈K2−n(5,≤) k( Kmax kRR−p 5(y)(42b) −n(5,≤) k∑ n=12n−1z(5,≤) kn)2 , P≥ 6(x) :=∑ u∈U2−n(6,≥) u( p6(y)−Umin uRR(42c) −n(6,≥) u∑ n=12n−1z(6,≥) un)2 , P≤ 6(x) :=∑ u∈U2−n(6,≤) u( Umax uRR−p 6(y)(42d) −n(6,≤) u∑ n=12n−1z(6,≤) un)2 .The exponential factors in the sums are empirically chosen to suitably scale the penalty terms. The ex- pressions are based on p5(y) :=∑ i∈I,(k′,u)∈g i,a∈Aδk′kPiya i→(k,u)Da i(43) p6(y) :=∑ i∈I,(k,u′)∈gi,a∈Aδu′uPiya i→(k,u)Da i(44) with Da i:={ Pi,ifa= 1 R−Pi,ifa= 2(45) and the ancilla counters n(5,≥) k:=⌈ log2( p5(y= 1)−Kmin kRR+ 1)⌉ ,(46a) n(5,≤) k:=⌈ log2( Kmax kRR+ 1)⌉ ,(46b) n(6,≥) u :=⌈ log2( p6(y= 1)−Umin uRR+ 1)⌉ ,(46c) n(6,≤) u :=⌈ log2( Umax uRR+ 1)⌉ .(46d) Theancillacounterscanbesummeduptoobtainthe total number of ancilla variables Nz:=∑ k∈K( n(5,≥) k+n(5,≤) k) (47) +∑ u∈U( n(6,≥) u +n(6,≤) u) , where the vector of ancilla variables is to be under- stood as z:=( z(5,≥) kn∀n∈{1,...,n(5,≥) k},k∈K,(48) z(5,≤) kn∀n∈{1,...,n(5,≤) k},k∈K, z(6,≥) un∀n∈{1,...,n(6,≥) u},u∈U, z(6,≤) un∀n∈{1,...,n(6,≤) u},u∈U) .(49) In summary, the following steps are necessary to arrive at Eq. (11) from Eq. (4): 1. Choose the scalarization weightsw. 2. Find the optimal routes for each part with Dĳk- stra’s algorithm (depends onw). 3. Refine the feasible solution space (independent ofw), eliminating all options that cannot be re- alized because of a missing connectivity. This leads to Eq. (31). 4. Choosenumeratorsanddenominatorstoobtain a rational approximation of the relative values and the primary source shares for all parts. 5. Transform inequality constraints into penalties usingNzancilla variables. 6. ChoosethecorrespondingLagrangemultipliers λ. This leads to Eq. (11). 24 Appendix D HBS Demonstration Fordemonstrationpurposes,thetimeprogressionof the solution quality at each stepnof HBS from Sec- tion5.3isexemplarilyshowninFig.10. Thedecrease of the Ising HamiltonianH(Fig. 10a) is accelerated bytheonlinetuningofhyperparametersachievedby DAS(Fig.10b). Ateachstep,theIsingsolversCACm, IBP, and QAOA are applied to improve the solution quality. Thesolutioncandidatesarethenfixedusing ISF and their objective value is evaluated. 50 100 150 200 250 DAS step nH (Ising) [a.u.]a H* min HQ1.551.60 Q (QUBO) 50 100 150 200 250 n (DAS step )0.00.51.0 (Solver parameters ) b 1 2 (CAC) a (IBP) Figure 10: Simulation results of the bilevel opti- mization approach using CACm, IBP, and QAOA. (a) Ising and QUBO objective vs. steps of DAS. (b) Step-dependent hyperparametersθof the Ising solvers.ω 1= 0.5,ω 2= 0.0,ω 3= 0.0, ω4= 0.5. See description of the hyperparameters {λ1,λ2,γ,β(IBP),β(CAC),ξ,a,T}in Sections 5.1.5 and 5.1.6.HandQare obtained before and after the application of ISF, respectively. The reference energyH∗is defined as the minimum objective of Eq. (13) found so far. Appendix E Experimental Setup For the experiments described in Section 6, we have used the following settings (using the notation from Sections 3 and 5): E1. Model: R:= 5, Pi:= 4for alli∈I, λi= 2fori∈ {1,6}, weights for each in- stance are chosen manually withw 2= 1−w 2 andw 3=w 4= 0:w= (0,1,0,0),w= (0.5,0.5,0,0),w= (1,0,0,0),w= (0.4,0.6,0,0), w= (0.6,0.4,0,0),w= (0.3,0.7,0,0), and twice w= (0.25,0.25,0.25,0.25). IQTS:m= 4,n= 15, κ= 50(κ= 100forw= (0.25,0.25,0.25,0.25)). QAOA:p= 1.Aria-1:256shotspercircuit. Total number of instances:8.E2. Model, IQTS: as in experiment E1, but instead of QAOA, SA is used. SA:1000annealing steps. Total number of instances:8. E3. Model: R:= 5,Pi:= 4for alli∈I,λ i= 2for i∈{1,6}, weights are chosen as a uniform grid wi∈{0.1,0.2,0.3,0.4,0.5,0.6,0.7,0.8,0.9,1}for i∈{1,4}with∑ iwi= 1. IQTS:m= 4,n= 25, κ= 50. QAOA:p= 1.SV1:1024shots per circuit. Total number of instances:286. E4. Model: R:= 5,Pi:= 4for alli∈I,λ i= 3 fori∈{1,4},λ i= 0fori∈{5,6}, uniformly sampled weightsw i∈[0,1]fori∈{1,4}with∑ iwi= 1foreachinstance. DAS:n= 250steps. Total number of instances:206. E5. Model: R:= 5,Pi:= 4for alli∈I,λ i= 3 fori∈{1,4},λ i= 0fori∈{5,6}, uniformly sampled weightsw i∈[0,1]fori∈{1,4}with∑ iwi= 1foreachinstance. DAS:n= 250steps. QAOA:p= 3.SV1:32shots per circuit. Total number of instances:156. E6. Model: uniformly sampled denominators R∈ {2,3,5,10,15,20,25,30,50,100}for each instance, Pi:= ˜P(R)for alli∈I with uniformly sampled values ˜P(R)∈ {⌈αminR⌉,...,⌊α maxR⌋}withα min:= 0.5and αmax := 0.8for each instance,λ i= 2for i∈{1,6},w i= 0.25fori∈{1,4}. IQTS:m= 4, n= 15,κ= 50. QAOA:p= 3.SV1:1024shots per circuit. Total number of instances:20. In all experiments, we choose a global denomi- natorR:= 10for the relative values, Eq. (34), and setthecorrespondingpart-dependentnumeratorsto their optimal values ˆPi:= arg min Pi∈Z⏐⏐⏐⏐vi−Pi Q⏐⏐⏐⏐(50) for alli∈I. This choice is particularly independent of the scalarization weightswand leads to a maxi- mum error ofmax i∈Iϵi= 0.051. All algorithms are implemented in Python using common libraries. Pennylane [8] is used to realize quantum circuits. Quantum circuits for QAOA are either executed ontheIonQdeviceAria-1orsimulatedwiththeAWS BraketuniversalstatevectorsimulatorSV1. Classical algorithms also run on AWS. For IQTS, we use 4 instances of AWS EC2 in total, each with 4 (total 16) vCPUs (3.6 GHzIntel Xeon) and 8 GiB of memory. For HBS, we use 22 instances of AWS EC2 in total with each 36 (total 792) vCPUs (2.9 GHzIntel Xeon E5-2666) and 60 GiB of memory. 25 Appendix F Additional Results In the following, we provide additional results for Section 6. Firstly, we present in Figs. 11 to 15 the Pareto frontiers for experiments E2 to E6 in anal- ogy to Fig. 4 for experiment E1. In each projection, we highlight the Pareto-optimal points in the four- dimensional KPI space as well as the optimal points for this specific projection (when ignoring the other dimensions). Note that all presented solutions are feasible. Secondly, we present the remaining projec- tions from experiment E6 in Fig. 16 as a supplement to Fig. 9. 1.51.61.71.61.82 emissionscosts 1.6 1.8 21.522.533.5 coststime 1.51.61.71234 emissionsworkshare 1.6 1.8 21234 costsworkshare 1.51.61.71.522.533.5 emissionstime 1.522.533.51234 timeworkshare Figure 11: Solutions from experiment E2 with the same symbols as in Fig. 4. 1.5 2 2.52345 emissionscosts 2 3 4 51234 coststime 1.5 2 2.524 emissionsworkshare 2 3 4 524 costsworkshare 1.5 2 2.51234 emissionstime 123424 timeworkshareFigure 12: Solutions from experiment E3 with the same symbols as in Fig. 4. 1.41.61.822.22345 emissionscosts 2 3 4 5234 coststime 1.41.61.822.21234 emissionsworkshare 2 3 4 51234 costsworkshare 1.41.61.822.2234 emissionstime 2 3 41234 timeworkshare Figure 13: Solutions from experiment E4 with the same symbols as in Fig. 4. 26 1.41.61.822.22.4234 emissionscosts 2 3 41234 coststime 1.41.61.822.22.424 emissionsworkshare 2 3 424 costsworkshare 1.41.61.822.22.41234 emissionstime 1 2 3 424 timeworkshareFigure 14: Solutions from experiment E5 with the same symbols as in Fig. 4. 1.61.71.81.922.12.2 emissionscosts 1.922.12.21.522.5 coststime 1.61.71.81.52 emissionsworkshare 1.922.12.21.52 costsworkshare 1.61.71.81.522.5 emissionstime 1.5 2 2.51.52 timeworkshare Figure 15: Solutions from experiment E6 with the same symbols as in Fig. 4. 1.61.71.81.922.12.2 emissionscosts 1.922.12.21.522.5 coststime 1.61.71.81.52 emissionsworkshare 1.922.12.21.52 costsworkshare 1.61.71.81.522.5 emissionstime 1.5 2 2.51.52 timeworkshareFigure 16: Solutions from experiment E6 with the same symbols as in Fig. 9. 27